=== PAGE 1 ===
MAGMA: A Multi-Graph based Agentic Memory Architecture for AI
Agents
Dongming Jiangα, Yi Liα, Guanpeng Liβand Bingzhe Liα
αUniversity of Texas at Dallas
βUniversity of Florida
{dongming.jiang, yi.li3, bingzhe.li}@utdallas.edu; liguanpeng@ufl.edu
Abstract
Memory-Augmented Generation (MAG) ex-
tends Large Language Models with external
memory to support long-context reasoning, but
existing approaches largely rely on semantic
similarity over monolithic memory stores, en-
tangling temporal, causal, and entity informa-
tion. This design limits interpretability and
alignment between query intent and retrieved
evidence, leading to suboptimal reasoning ac-
curacy. In this paper, we propose MAGMA, a
multi-graph agentic memory architecture that
represents each memory item across orthogonal
semantic, temporal, causal, and entity graphs.
MAGMA formulates retrieval as policy-guided
traversal over these relational views, enabling
query-adaptive selection and structured context
construction. By decoupling memory represen-
tation from retrieval logic, MAGMA provides
transparent reasoning paths and fine-grained
control over retrieval. Experiments on Lo-
CoMo and LongMemEval demonstrate that
MAGMA consistently outperforms state-of-the-
art agentic memory systems in long-horizon
reasoning tasks.
1 Introduction
Large Language Models (LLMs) have demon-
strated remarkable capabilities across a wide range
of tasks (Brown et al., 2020; Achiam et al., 2023;
Wei et al., 2022), yet they remain limited in their
ability to maintain and reason over long-term con-
text. These models process information within a
finite attention window, and their internal represen-
tations do not persist across interactions, causing
earlier details to be forgotten once they fall out-
side the active context (Brown et al., 2020; Belt-
agy et al., 2020a). Even within a single long se-
quence, attention effectiveness degrades with dis-
tance due toattention dilution, positional encoding
limitations, and token interference, leading to the
well-known “lost-in-the-middle” and context-decay
phenomena (Liu et al., 2024; Press et al., 2021a).Moreover, LLMs lack native mechanisms for stable
and structured memory, resulting in inconsistent re-
call, degraded long-horizon reasoning, and limited
support for tasks requiring persistent and organized
memory (Khandelwal et al., 2018; Maharana et al.,
2024).
To address these inherent limitations, Memory-
Augmented Generation (MAG) systems have
emerged as a promising direction for enabling
LLMs to operate beyond the boundaries of their
fixed context windows. MAG equips an agent with
an external memory continuously recording inter-
action histories and allowing the agents to retrieve
and reintegrate past experiences when generating
new responses. By offloading long-term context to
an explicit memory module, MAG systems provide
a means for agents to accumulate knowledge over
time, support multi-session coherence, and adapt
to evolving conversational or task contexts. In this
paradigm, memory is no longer implicit in inter-
nal activations but becomes a persistent, queryable
resource that substantially enhances long-horizon
reasoning, personalized behavior, and stable agent
identity.
Despite their promise, current MAG systems
exhibit structural and operational limitations that
constrain their effectiveness in long-term reason-
ing (Li et al., 2025; Chhikara et al., 2025; Xu et al.,
2025; Packer et al., 2023; Rasmussen et al., 2025;
Wang and Chen, 2025; Kang et al., 2025a). Most
existing approaches store past interactions in mono-
lithic repositories or minimally structured memory
buffers, relying primarily on semantic similarity, re-
cency, or heuristic scoring to retrieve relevant con-
tent. For example, A-Mem (Xu et al., 2025) orga-
nizes past interactions into Zettelkasten-like mem-
ory units that are incrementally linked and refined,
yet their retrieval pipelines rely primarily on se-
mantic embedding similarity, missing the relations
such as 

=== PAGE 2 ===
introduce principled episodic segmentation and rep-
resentation alignment, enabling agents to detect
event boundaries and construct higher-level seman-
tic summaries. However, their memory structures
are still narrative and undifferentiated, with no ex-
plicit modeling of distinct relational dimensions.
To address the structural limitations of exist-
ing MAG systems, we propose MAGMA, a multi-
graph agentic memory architecture that explic-
itly models heterogeneous relational structure in
an agent’s experience. MAGMA represents each
memory item across four orthogonal relational
graphs (i.e., semantic, temporal, causal, and en-
tity), yielding a disentangled representation of how
events, concepts, and participants are related.
Built on this unified multi-graph substrate,
MAGMA introduces a hierarchical, intent-aware
query mechanism that selects relevant relational
views, traverses them independently, and fuses the
resulting subgraphs into a compact, type-aligned
context for generation. By decoupling memory rep-
resentation from retrieval logic, MAGMA enables
transparent reasoning paths, fine-grained control
over memory selection, and improved alignment
between query intent and retrieved evidence. This
relational formulation provides a principled and ex-
tensible foundation for agentic memory, improving
both long-term coherence and interpretability.
Our contributions are summarized as follows:
1.We proposeMAGMA, a multi-graph agentic
memory architecture that explicitly models se-
mantic, temporal, causal, and entity relations
essential for long-horizon reasoning.
2.We introduce an Adaptive Traversal Policy that
routes retrieval based on query intent, enabling
efficient pruning of irrelevant graph regions and
achieving lower latency and reduced token us-
age.
3.We design a dual-stream memory evolution
mechanism that decouples latency-sensitive
event ingestion from asynchronous structural
consolidation, preserving responsiveness while
refining relational structure.
4.We demonstrate that MAGMA consistently out-
performs state-of-the-art agentic memory sys-
tems on long-context benchmarks including Lo-
CoMo and LongMemEval, while reducing re-
trieval latency and token consumption relative
to prior systems. The code is open-sourced1.
1https://github.com/FredJiang0324/MAMGA
User/EnvironmentMemory (Dynamic, Evolving)Retrieval & New promptOutputAnswerUpdateAgentic MemoryQueryAgent (LLM)Figure 1: High-Level Architecture of Memory-
Augmented Generation (MAG).
2 Background
Existing Large Language Models (LLMs) face fun-
damental challenges in handling long-term agentic
interactions. These challenges stem from the in-
herent limitations of fixed-length contexts, which
result in fragmented memory and an inability to
maintain narrative coherence over time. The evo-
lution of long-term consistency in LLMs is shifted
fromContext-Window Extension(Beltagy et al.,
2020a; Press et al., 2021a; Kang et al., 2025c;
Qian et al., 2025),Retrieval-Augmented Genera-
tion (RAG)(Lewis et al., 2020; Jiang et al., 2025;
Wang et al., 2024; Jiang et al., 2024; Gutiérrez et al.,
2025; Lin et al., 2025) toMemory-Augmented Gen-
eration (MAG).
Retrieval-oriented approaches enrich the model
with an external, dynamic memory library, giving
rise to the paradigm of Memory-Augmented Gener-
ation (MAG) (Zhong et al., 2024; Park et al., 2023;
Huang et al., 2024). Formally, unlike static RAG,
MAG maintains a time-variant memory Mtthat
evolves via a feedback loop:
ot=LLM(q t,Retrieve(q t,Mt))(1)
Mt+1=Update(M t, qt, ot)(2)
As shown in Figure 1, this feedback loop enables
the memory module to evolve over time: the user
query is combined with retrieved information to
form an augmented prompt, and the model’s output
is subsequently written back to refineM t.
Some prior schemes focused on structuring the
intermediate states or relationships of memory to
enable better reasoning. Think-in-Memory (TiM)
(Liu et al., 2023) stores evolving chains-of-thought
to maintain consistency. A-

=== PAGE 3 ===
User New Message
Vector Database
Entity
Temporal
Semantic
CausalData Structure LayerRelation graphs
Synaptic IngestionSematic LinkingTemporal LinkingEntity LinkingDense/SparseEmbeddingEventSegmentationAsynchronous ConsolidationAsync Queue(Buffer / IDs)NeighborRetrievalUser QueryIntent-Aware RouterAdaptive Topological RetrievalContext SynthesizerLinearized Context prompt
Final Response
Anchor IdentificationRRF FusionAdaptive Traversal Policy
LLM CausalInferenceQuery process
Write/update processFigure 2: Architectural Overview of MAGMA. The system is composed of three layers: (1) A Query Process that
routes and synthesizes context; (2) A Data Structure Layer organizing memory into Relation Graphs and a Vector
Database; and (3) A Write/Update Process utilizing a dual-stream mechanism for fast ingestion and asynchronous
consolidation.
network. More recently, graph-based approaches
like GraphRAG (Edge et al., 2024a) and Zep (Ras-
mussen et al., 2025) structure memory into knowl-
edge graphs to capture cross-document dependen-
cies. We provide a detailed discussion of related
work in Appendix A.
However, prior work typically organizes memory
around associative proximity (e.g., semantic sim-
ilarity) rather than mechanistic dependency (Kici-
man et al., 2023). As a result, such methods can
retrievewhatoccurred but struggle to reason about
why, since they lack explicit representations of
causal structure, leading to reduced accuracy in
complex reasoning tasks (Jin et al., 2023; Zhang
et al., 2025).
3 MAGMA Design
In this section, we introduce the proposed Multi-
Graph based Agentic Memory (MAGMA) design
and its components in detail.
3.1 Architectural Overview
MAGMA architecture is organized into the fol-
lowing three logical layers, orchestrating the in-
teraction between control logic and the memory
substrate as illustrated in Figure 2.
Query Process:The inference engine responsi-
ble for retrieving and synthesizing information. It
comprises theIntent-Aware Routerfor dispatching
tasks, theAdaptive Topological Retrievalmodule
for executing graph traversals, and theContext Syn-
thesizerfor generating the final narrative response.Data Structure ( G):The unified storage substrate
that fuses disparate modalities. As shown in the
center of Figure 2, it maintains aVector Database
for semantic search alongside four distinctRela-
tion Graphs(i.e., Semantic, Temporal, Causal and
Entity). This layer provides the topological foun-
dation for cross-view reasoning.
Write/Update Process:A dual-stream pipeline
manages memory evolution. It decouples latency-
sensitive operations viaSynaptic Ingestion(Fast
Path) from compute-intensive reasoning viaAsyn-
chronous Consolidation(Slow Path), ensuring
the system remains responsive while continuously
deepening its memory structure.
Functionally, the Query Layer interacts with
the Data Structure Layer to execute the syn-
chronous Query Process (Section 3.3), while the
Write/Update Layer manages the continuous Mem-
ory Evolution (Section 3.4).
3.2 Data Structure Layer
As the core component of Memory-Augmented
Generation (MAG), the data structure layer is re-
sponsible for storing, organizing, and evolving past
information to support future retrieval and updates.
In MAGMA, we formalize this layer as a time-
variant directed multigraph Gt= (N t,Et), where
nodes represent events and edges encode heteroge-
neous relational structures. This unified manifold
enables structured reasoning across multiple logi-
cal dimensions(i.e., semantic, temporal, causal, and
entity) while preserving their orthogonality.

=== PAGE 4 ===
Unified node representation:The node set Nis
hierarchically organized to represent experience at
multiple granularities, ranging from fine-grained
atomic events to higher-level episodic groupings.
Each Event-Noden i∈ N eventis defined as:
ni=⟨c i, τi,vi,Ai⟩(3)
where cidenotes the event content (e.g., obser-
vations, actions, or state changes), τiis a dis-
crete timestamp anchoring the event in time, and
vi∈Rdis a dense representation indexed in the
vector database (Johnson et al., 2019). The at-
tribute set Aicaptures structured metadata such
as entity references, temporal cues, or contextual
descriptors, enabling hybrid retrieval that integrates
semantic similarity with symbolic and structural
constraints.
Relation graphs (edge space):The edge set E
is partitioned into four semantic subspaces, corre-
sponding to the relation graphs:
•Temporal Graph ( Etemp):Defined as strictly
ordered pairs (ni, nj)where τi< τ j. This
immutable chain provides the ground truth for
chronological reasoning.
•Causal Graph ( Ecausal ):Directed edges repre-
senting logical entailment. An edge eij∈ Ecausal
exists if S(nj|ni, q)> δ , explicitly inferred
by the consolidation module to support "Why"
queries.
•Semantic Graph ( Esem):Undirected edges con-
necting conceptually similar events, formally de-
fined bycos(v i,vj)> θ sim.
•Entity Graph ( Eent):Edges connecting events
to abstract entity nodes, solving the object perma-
nence problem across disjoint timeline segments.
3.3 Query Process: Adaptive Hierarchical
Retrieval
As illustrated in Figure 3, retrieval in MAGMA is
formulated as a policy-guided graph traversal rather
than a static lookup operation. The query process is
orchestrated by a Router R, which decomposes the
user query into structured control signals and exe-
cutes a multi-stage retrieval pipeline (Algorithm 1)
that dynamically selects, traverses, and fuses rele-
vant relational views. Four main stages in the query
process is introduced below:
Stage 1 - Query Analysis & Decomposition:The
process begins by decomposing the raw user queryqinto structured control signals, including seman-
tic, lexical, and temporal cues. MAGMA then ex-
tracts three complementary representations to guide
the retrieval process:
•Intent Classification ( Tq):A lightweight clas-
sifier maps qto a specific intent type Tq∈
{WHY,WHEN,ENTITY} . This acts as the "steer-
ing wheel," determining which graph edges will
later be prioritized (e.g., "Why" queries trigger a
bias for Causal edges).
•Temporal Parsing ( [τs, τe]):A temporal tagger
resolves relative expressions (e.g., "last Friday")
into absolute timestamps, defining a hard time
window for filtering.
•Representation Extraction:The system simul-
taneously generates a dense embedding ⃗ qfor se-
mantic search and extracts sparse keywords qkey
for exact lexical matching.
Stage 2 - Multi-Signal Anchor Identification:
Before initiating graph traversal, the system first
identifies a set of anchor nodes that serve as entry
points into the memory graph. To ensure robustness
across query modalities, we fuse signals from dense
semantic retrieval, lexical keyword matching, and
temporal filtering using Reciprocal Rank Fusion
(RRF) (Cormack et al., 2009):
Sanchor =TopK
X
m∈{vec,key,time}1
k+r m(n)

(4)
This ensures robust starting points regardless of
query modality.
Stage 3 - Adaptive Traversal Policy:Starting
from the anchor set Sanchor , the system expands
the context using a Heuristic Beam Search. Unlike
rigid rule-based traversals, MAGMA calculates a
dynamic transition score S(nj|ni, q)for moving
from node nito neighbor njvia edge eij. This
score fuses structural alignment with semantic rele-
vance:
S(nj|ni, q) = exp
λ1·ϕ(type(e ij), Tq)|{z }
Structural
Alignment
+λ 2·sim(⃗ n j, ⃗ q)|{z}
Semantic
Affinity (5)
Here, sim(·) denotes the cosine similarity be-
tween the neighbor’s embedding and the query em-

=== PAGE 5 ===
Intent-Aware RouterQuery Intent AnalysisAssign Weights 
CausalQuery ExpansionTime window/filter
Logic CheckUser Query
Semantic SignalVector SearchLexical SignalKeyword SearchTemporal SignalTime Window/FilterRRF Fusion&Anchor IdentificationContext SynthesizerLinearized Context CpromptAnchorNodesEntity Relationship Check
Semantic
Temporal
EntityRetrieved nodes
Query AnalyzerPolicy GuidedSemanticTemporalEntityCausalFinal ResponseFigure 3: Query process with adaptive hybrid retrieval pipeline. (1) Query Analysis detects intent and fuses signals
to find Anchors. (2) Adaptive Traversal navigates specific graph views (Causal, Temporal) based on the policy
weights.
bedding. The structural alignment function ϕdy-
namically rewards edge types based on the detected
query intentT q:
ϕ(r, T q) =w⊤
Tq·1r (6)
where wTqis an adaptive weight vector specific
to intent Tq(e.g., assigning high weights to CAUSAL
edges for "Why" queries), and 1ris the one-hot
encoding of the edge relation.
At each step, the algorithm retains the top- k
nodes with the highest cumulative scores. This
ensures the traversal is guided by a dual signal:
strictly following the logical structure (via ϕ) while
maintaining contextual focus (via sim).
Stage 4: Narrative Synthesis via Graph Lin-
earization:The final phase transforms the re-
trieved subgraph Gsubinto a coherent narrative con-
text. MAGMA employs a structure-aware lineariza-
tion protocol that preserves the relational depen-
dencies encoded in the graph with the following
three phases.
1. Topological Ordering:Raw nodes are reor-
ganized to reflect the logic of the query. For tem-
poral queries ( Tq=WHEN ), nodes are sorted by
timestamp τi. For causal queries ( Tq=WHY ), we
apply a topological sort on the causal edges Ecausal
to ensure causes precede effects in the prompt con-
text.
2. Context Scaffolding with Provenance:To
mitigate hallucination, each node is serialized into a
structured block containing its timestamp, content,
and explicit reference ID. We define the linearized
contextC prompt as:
Cprompt =L
ni∈Sort(G sub)[<t:τ i>ni.content<ref:n i.id>]
(7)Algorithm 1Adaptive Hybrid Retrieval (Heuristic
Beam Search)
Input:Queryq, GraphG, VectorDBV, IntentT q
Output:Narrative ContextC out
1:// Phase 1: Initialization
2:S anchor ←RRF(V.SEARCH(⃗ q), K.SEARCH(q key))//
Hybrid Retrieval
3:CurrentFrontier, V isited←S anchor
4:w Tq←GETATTENTIONWEIGHTS(T q)
5:ford←1toMaxDepthdo
6:Candidates←PRIORITYQUEUE()
7:foru∈CurrentFrontierdo
8:forv∈G.NEIGHBORS(u)do
9:ifv /∈V isitedthen
10:// Calculate transition score via Eq. 5
11:s uv←exp(λ 1(w⊤
Tq·1euv) +
λ2sim(⃗ v, ⃗ q))
12:score v←score u·γ+s uv // Apply
Decayγ
13:Candidates.PUSH(v, score v)
14:end if
15:end for
16:end for
17:CurrentFrontier←
Candidates.TOPK(BeamWidth)
18:V isited.ADDALL(CurrentFrontier)
19:ifV isited.SIZE()≥Budgetthen break
20:end if
21:end for
22:C sorted←TOPOLOGICALSORT(V isited, T q)
23:returnSERIALIZE(C sorted )
whereLdenotes string concatenation.
3. Salience-Based Token Budgeting:Given a
fixed LLM context window, we cannot include all
retrieved nodes. We utilize the relevance scores
S(nj|ni, q)computed in Eq. (5) to enforce a dy-
namic budget. Low-probability nodes are summa-
rized into brevity codes (e.g., "...3 intermediate
events..."), while high-salience nodes retain full
semantic detail.
This structured scaffold forces the LLM to act
as an interpreter of evidence rather than a creative

=== PAGE 6 ===
Algorithm 2Fast Path: Synaptic Ingestion
Input:User InteractionI, Current GraphG t
Output:Updated GraphG t+1
1:n t←SEGMENTEVENT(I)
2:n prev←GETLASTNODE(G t)
3:// Update Temporal Backbone
4:G.ADDEDGE(n prev, nt,type=TEMP)
5:// Indexing
6:v t←ENCODER(n t.c)
7:V DB.ADD(v t, nt.id)
8:Queue.ENQUEUE(n t.id)// Trigger Slow Path
9:returnn t
writer, significantly reducing grounding errors.
3.4 Memory Evolution (Write and Update)
Long-term reasoning requires not only effective
retrieval, but also a memory substrate that can
adapt and reorganize as experience accumulates.
MAGMA addresses this requirement through a
structured memory evolution scheme that incre-
mentally refines its multi-relational graph over
time. Specifically, the transition from GttoGt+1is
governed by a dual-stream process that decouples
latency-sensitive ingestion from compute-intensive
consolidation (Kumaran et al., 2016), balancing
short-term responsiveness with long-term reason-
ing fidelity.
Fast path ( synaptic ingestion):The Fast Path
operates on the critical path of interaction, con-
strained by strict latency requirements. It performs
non-blocking operations: event segmentation, vec-
tor indexing, and updating the immutable temporal
backbone ( nt−1→n t). As detailed in Algorithm 2,
no blocking LLM reasoning occurs here, ensuring
the agent remains responsive regardless of memory
size.
Slow path (structural consolidation):Asyn-
chronously, the slow path performs Memory Con-
solidation (Algorithm 3). It functions as a back-
ground worker that dequeues events and densifies
the graph structure. By analyzing the local neigh-
borhood N(n t)of recent events, the system em-
ploys an LLMΦto infer latent connections:
Enew= Φ reason (N(n t),Hhistory )(8)
This process constructs high-value Ecausal andEent
links, effectively trading off compute time for rela-
tional depth.
3.5 Implementation
We implement MAGMA as a modular three-layer
architecture designed for extensibility, scalability,Algorithm 3Slow Path: Structural Consolidation
1:Worker Process:
2:loop
3:id←Queue.DEQUEUE()
4:ifidisnull then continue
5:end if
6:n t← G.GETNODE(id)
7:N local← G.GETNEIGHBORHOOD(n t,hops= 2)
8:// Infer latent Causal and Entity structures
9:Prompt←FORMAT(N local)
10:E new←Φ LLM(Prompt)
11:G.ADDEDGES(E new)
12:end loop
and deployment flexibility. The storage layer ab-
stracts over heterogeneous physical backends, pro-
viding unified interfaces for managing the typed
memory graph, dense vector indices, and sparse
keyword indices. This abstraction cleanly separates
the logical memory model from its physical real-
ization, enabling seamless substitution of storage
backends (e.g., in-memory data structures versus
production-grade graph or vector databases) with
minimal engineering effort.
The retrieval layer coordinates the core algo-
rithmic components, including memory construc-
tion, multi-stage ranking, and policy-guided graph
traversal. It is supported by specialized utility
modules for episodic segmentation and temporal
normalization, which provide structured signals to
downstream retrieval and traversal policies. The ap-
plication layer manages the interaction loop, evalu-
ation harnesses, and prompt construction, serving
as the interface between the agent and the underly-
ing memory system.
4 Experiments
We conduct comprehensive experiments to evalu-
ate both the reasoning effectiveness and systems
properties of the proposed MAGMA architecture
over state-of-the-art baselines.
4.1 Experimental Setup
Datasets.We evaluate long-term conversational
capability using two widely adopted benchmarks:
(1) LoCoMo(Maharana et al., 2024): which con-
tains ultra-long conversations (average length of
9K tokens) designed to assess long-range temporal
and causal retrieval.(2) LongMemEval(Wu et al.,
2024): a large-scale stress-test benchmark with
an average context length exceeding 100K tokens,
used to evaluate scalability and memory retention
stability over extended interaction horizons..

=== PAGE 7 ===
Table 1: Performance on the LoCoMo benchmark evaluated using the LLM-as-a-Judge metric. Higher scores
indicate better performance. LLM model is based on gpt-4o-mini.
Method Multi-Hop Temporal Open-Domain Single-Hop Adversarial Overall
Full Context 0.468 0.562 0.486 0.630 0.205 0.481
A-MEM 0.495 0.474 0.385 0.653 0.616 0.580
MemoryOS 0.552 0.422 0.504 0.674 0.428 0.553
Nemori0.5690.649 0.485 0.764 0.325 0.590
MAGMA (ours)0.5280.650 0.517 0.776 0.742 0.700
Baselines.We compare MAGMA against four
state-of-the-art memory architectures. For fair com-
parison, all methods employ the same backbone
LLMs.
•Full Context: Feeds the entire conversation his-
tory into the LLM.
•A-MEM(Xu et al., 2025): A biological-inspired,
self-evolving memory system that dynamically
organizes agent experiences.
•Nemori(Nan et al., 2025): A graph-based mem-
ory utilizing a "predict-calibrate" mechanism for
episodic segmentation.
•MemoryOS(Kang et al., 2025a) : A semantic-
focused memory operating system employing a
hierarchical storage strategy.
Metrics.Following standard evaluation protocols,
we primarily use the LLM-as-a-Judge score (Zheng
et al., 2023) to assess the accuracy of different
methods. The detailed evaluation prompt used for
the judge model is provided in the appendix. For
completeness, we also report token-level F1 and
BLEU-1 (Papineni et al., 2002).
4.2 Overall Comparison
This section introduces the accuracy performance
comparison between all methods on the LoCoMo
benchmark based on LLM-as-a-judge. As shown
in Table 1, MAGMA achieves the highest over-
all judge score of 0.7, substantially outperforming
the other baselines: Full Context (0.481), A-MEM
(0.58), MemoryOS (0.553) and Nemori (0.59) by
relative margins of 18.6% to 45.5%. This re-
sult demonstrates that explicitly modeling multi-
relational structure enables more accurate long-
horizon reasoning than flat or purely semantic mem-
ory architectures.
A closer analysis reveals that MAGMA’s ad-
vantage is particularly pronounced in reasoning-
intensive settings. In the Temporal category,
MAGMA slightly but consistently outperforms oth-
ers (Judge: 0.650 for MAGMA vs. 0.422 - 0.649 forothers), validating the effectiveness of our Tempo-
ral Inference Engine in resolving relative temporal
expressions into grounded chronological represen-
tations. The performance gap further widens under
adversarial conditions, where MAGMA attains a
judge score of 0.742. This robustness stems from
the Adaptive Traversal Policy, which prioritizes
causal and entity-consistent paths and avoids se-
mantically similar yet structurally irrelevant dis-
tractors that often mislead vector-based retrieval
systems. Additional results and analyzes, includ-
ing case studies and evaluations under alternative
metrics, are provided in the appendix.
4.3 Generalization Study
To evaluate generalization under extreme context
lengths, we compare MAGMA against prior meth-
ods on the LongMemEval benchmark. Long-
MemEval poses a substantial scalability challenge,
with an average context length exceeding 100k to-
kens, and therefore serves as a rigorous stress test
for long-term memory retention and retrieval under
strict computational constraints.
As summarized in Table 2, MAGMA achieves
the highest average accuracy (61.2%), outperform-
ing both the Full-context baseline (55.0%) and the
Nemori system (56.2%). These results indicate that
MAGMA generalizes effectively to ultra-long inter-
action histories while maintaining strong retrieval
precision.
At the same time, the results highlight a favor-
able efficiency–granularity trade-off. Although the
Full-context baseline performs strongly onsingle-
session-assistanttasks (89.3%), this performance
comes at a prohibitive computational cost, requir-
ing over 100k tokens per query. MAGMA achieves
competitive accuracy (83.9%) while using only
0.7k–4.2k tokens per query, representing a reduc-
tion of more than 95%. This demonstrates that
MAGMA effectively compresses long interaction
hist

=== PAGE 8 ===
Table 2: Performance comparison on LongMemEval dataset across different question types. We compare our
MAGMA method against the Full-context baseline and the Nemori system.
Question Type Full-context Nemori MAGMA
(101K tokens) (3.7–4.8K tokens) (0.7–4.2K tokens)gpt-4o-minisingle-session-preference 6.7% 62.7%73.3%
single-session-assistant89.3%73.2% 83.9%
temporal-reasoning 42.1% 43.0%45.1%
multi-session 38.3%51.4%50.4%
knowledge-update 78.2% 52.6%66.7%
single-session-user78.6%77.7% 72.9%
Average55.0% 56.2%61.2%
Table 3: System efficiency comparison with total mem-
ory build time (in hours), average token consumption
per query (in k tokens), and average query latency (in
seconds).
Method Build Time (h) Tokens/Query (k) Latency (s)
Full Context N/A 8.53 1.74
A-MEM 1.012.622.26
MemoryOS 0.91 4.76 32.68
Nemori0.293.46 2.59
MAGMA0.39 3.371.47
Table 4: Breakdown analysis on the performance impact
of different schemes in MAGMA.
MAGMA schemes Judge F1 BLEU-1
w/o Adaptive Policy 0.637 0.413 0.357
w/o Causal Links 0.644 0.439 0.354
w/o Temporal Backbone 0.647 0.438 0.349
w/o Entity Links 0.666 0.451 0.363
MAGMA (Full) 0.700 0.467 0.378
reducing inference-time overhead.
4.4 System Efficiency Analysis
To evaluate the system efficiency of MAGMA, two
metrics are focused: (1) memory build time (the
time required to construct the memory graph) and
(2) token cost (the average tokens processed per
query).
Table 3 reports the comparative results. While
A-MEM achieves the lowest token consumption
(2.62k) due to its aggressive summarization, it sac-
rifices reasoning depth (see Table 1). In contrast,
MAGMA achieves the lowest query latency (1.47s)
about 40% faster than the next best retrieval base-
line (A-MEM) while maintaining a competitive
token cost (3.37k). This efficiency stems from our
Adaptive Traversal Policy, which prunes irrelevant
subgraphs early, and the dual-stream architecture
that offloads complex indexing to the background.4.5 Ablation Study
In this subsection, we conduct a systematic abla-
tion study to assess the contribution of individual
components in MAGMA. By selectively disabling
edge types and traversal mechanisms, we isolate
the sources of its reasoning capability. The results
in Table 4 reveal three main findings.
First, removing Traversal Policy results in the
largest performance drop, with the Judge score de-
creasing from 0.700 to 0.637. This confirms that
intent-aware routing is critical: without it, retrieval
degenerates into a static graph walk that introduces
structurally irrelevant information and degrades rea-
soning quality. Second, removing either Causal
Links or the Temporal Backbone leads to compara-
ble and substantial performance losses (0.644 and
0.647, respectively), indicating that causal struc-
ture and temporal ordering provide complemen-
tary, non-substitutable axes of reasoning. Finally,
removing Entity Links causes a smaller but con-
sistent decline (0.700 to 0.666), highlighting their
role in maintaining entity permanence and reducing
hallucinations in entity-centric queries.
5 Conclusion
We introduced MAGMA, a multi-graph agentic
memory architecture that models semantic, tem-
poral, causal, and entity relations within a uni-
fied yet disentangled memory substrate. By for-
mulating retrieval as a policy-guided graph traver-
sal and decoupling memory ingestion from asyn-
chronous structural consolidation, MAGMA en-
ables effective long-horizon reasoning while main-
taining low inference-time latency. Empirical re-
sults on LoCoMo and LongMemEval demonstrate
that MAGMA consistently outperforms state-of-
the-art memory systems while achieving substan-
tial efficiency gains under ultra-long contexts.

=== PAGE 9 ===
6 Limitations
While MAGMA demonstrates strong empirical per-
formance, it has several limitations. First, the qual-
ity of the constructed memory graph depends on
the reasoning fidelity of the underlying Large Lan-
guage Models used during asynchronous consoli-
dation. This dependency is a shared limitation of
agentic memory systems that rely on LLM-based
structural inference, as they are susceptible to ex-
traction errors and hallucinations (Pan et al., 2024;
Xi et al., 2025; Wadhwa et al., 2023). Although
MAGMA employs structured prompts and conser-
vative inference thresholds to reduce spurious links,
erroneous or missing relations may still arise and
propagate to downstream retrieval. Nevertheless,
our experimental results indicate that, even under
these constraints, agentic memory systems such as
MAGMA substantially outperform traditional base-
lines, including full-context approaches, in long-
horizon reasoning tasks.
Second, multi-graph substrate may introduce ad-
ditional storage and engineering complexity com-
pared to flat, vector-only memory systems. Main-
taining multiple relational views and dual-stream
processing incurs a little higher implementation
and memory overhead, which may limit applicabil-
ity in highly resource-constrained environments.
Finally, most existing agentic memory systems,
including MAGMA, are primarily evaluated on
long-context conversational and agentic bench-
marks such as LoCoMo and LongMemEval. While
these benchmarks effectively stress temporal and
causal reasoning, they do not cover the full range
of settings in which agentic memory may be re-
quired(Hu et al., 2025). Extending MAGMA to
other scenarios, such as multimodal agents or envi-
ronments with heterogeneous observation streams,
may require additional adaptation and calibration.
Addressing these broader evaluation settings re-
mains an important research direction for future
work.
References
Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama
Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman,
Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman,
Shyamal Anadkat, and 1 others. 2023. Gpt-4 techni-
cal report.arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774.
Iz Beltagy, Matthew E Peters, and Arman Cohan. 2020a.
Longformer: The long-document transformer.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2004.05150.Iz Beltagy, Matthew E Peters, and Arman Cohan. 2020b.
Longformer: The long-document transformer.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2004.05150.
Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie
Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind
Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda
Askell, and 1 others. 2020. Language models are
few-shot learners.Advances in neural information
processing systems, 33:1877–1901.
Prateek Chhikara, Dev Khant, Saket Aryan, Taranjeet
Singh, and Deshraj Yadav. 2025. Mem0: Building
production-ready ai agents with scalable long-term
memory.arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.19413.
Gordon V . Cormack, Charles L A Clarke, and Stefan
Buettcher. 2009. Reciprocal rank fusion outperforms
condorcet and individual rank learning methods. In
Proceedings of the 32nd International ACM SIGIR
Conference on Research and Development in Infor-
mation Retrieval, SIGIR ’09, page 758–759, New
York, NY , USA. Association for Computing Machin-
ery.
Darren Edge, Ha Trinh, Newman Cheng, Joshua
Bradley, Alex Chao, Apurva Mody, Steven Truitt,
Dasha Metropolitansky, Robert Osazuwa Ness, and
Jonathan Larson. 2024a. From local to global: A
graph rag approach to query-focused summarization.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16130.
Darren Edge, Ha Trinh, Newman Cheng, Joshua
Bradley, Alex Chao, Apurva Mody, Steven Truitt,
Dasha Metropolitansky, Robert Osazuwa Ness, and
Jonathan Larson. 2024b. From local to global: A
graph rag approach to query-focused summarization.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16130.
Bernal Jiménez Gutiérrez, Yiheng Shu, Weijian Qi,
Sizhe Zhou, and Yu Su. 2025. From rag to memory:
Non-parametric continual learning for large language
models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.14802.
Yuyang Hu, Shichun Liu, Yanwei

=== PAGE 10 ===
Zhijing Jin, Yuen Chen, Felix Leeb, Luigi Gresele,
Ojasv Kamal, Zhiheng Lyu, Kevin Blin, Fernando
Gonzalez Adauto, Max Kleiman-Weiner, Mrinmaya
Sachan, and 1 others. 2023. Cladder: Assessing
causal reasoning in language models.Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, 36:31038–
31065.
Jeff Johnson, Matthijs Douze, and Hervé Jégou. 2019.
Billion-scale similarity search with gpus.IEEE
Transactions on Big Data, 7(3):535–547.
Jiazheng Kang, Mingming Ji, Zhe Zhao, and Ting Bai.
2025a. Memory os of ai agent.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2506.06326.
Jiazheng Kang, Mingming Ji, Zhe Zhao, and Ting Bai.
2025b. Memory os of ai agent.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2506.06326.
Jikun Kang, Wenqi Wu, Filippos Christianos, Alex J
Chan, Fraser Greenlee, George Thomas, Marvin Pur-
torab, and Andy Toulis. 2025c. Lm2: Large memory
models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.06049.
Urvashi Khandelwal, He He, Peng Qi, and Dan Ju-
rafsky. 2018. Sharp nearby, fuzzy far away: How
neural language models use context.arXiv preprint
arXiv:1805.04623.
Emre Kiciman, Robert Ness, Amit Sharma, and Chen-
hao Tan. 2023. Causal reasoning and large language
models: Opening a new frontier for causality.Trans-
actions on Machine Learning Research.
Dharshan Kumaran, Demis Hassabis, and James L Mc-
Clelland. 2016. What learning systems do intelligent
agents need? complementary learning systems the-
ory updated.Trends in cognitive sciences, 20(7):512–
534.
Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio
Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Hein-
rich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rock-
täschel, and 1 others. 2020. Retrieval-augmented gen-
eration for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks.Advances
in neural information processing systems, 33:9459–
9474.
Zhiyu Li, Shichao Song, Chenyang Xi, Hanyu Wang,
Chen Tang, and 1 others. 2025. Memos: A memory
os for ai system.arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.03724.
Shuhang Lin, Zhencan Peng, Lingyao Li, Xiao Lin,
Xi Zhu, and Yongfeng Zhang. 2025. Cache mech-
anism for agent rag systems.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2511.02919.
Lei Liu, Xiaoyan Yang, Yue Shen, Binbin Hu, Zhiqiang
Zhang, Jinjie Gu, and Guannan Zhang. 2023. Think-
in-memory: Recalling and post-thinking enable
llms with long-term memory.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2311.08719.Nelson F Liu, Kevin Lin, John Hewitt, Ashwin Paran-
jape, Michele Bevilacqua, Fabio Petroni, and Percy
Liang. 2024. Lost in the middle: How language mod-
els use long contexts.Transactions of the Association
for Computational Linguistics, 12:157–173.
Adyasha Maharana, Dong-Ho Lee, Sergey Tulyakov,
Mohit Bansal, Francesco Barbieri, and Yuwei
Fang. 2024. Evaluating very long-term conver-
sational memory of llm agents.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.17753.
Jiayan Nan, Wenquan Ma, Wenlong Wu, and Yize
Chen. 2025. Nemori: Self-organizing agent mem-
ory inspired by cognitive science.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2508.03341.
Charles Packer, Vivian Fang, Shishir_G Patil, Kevin
Lin, Sarah Wooders, and Joseph_E Gonzalez. 2023.
Memgpt: Towards llms as operating systems.
Shirui Pan, Linhao Luo, Yufei Wang, Chen Chen, Ji-
apu Wang, and Xindong Wu. 2024. Unifying large
language models and knowledge graphs: A roadmap.
IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engi-
neering, 36(7):3580–3599.
Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-
Jing Zhu. 2002. Bleu: a method for automatic evalu-
ation of machine translation. InProceedings of the
40th Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics, pages 311–318, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, USA. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Joon Sung Park, Joseph O’Brien, Carrie Jun Cai, Mered-
ith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and Michael S Bern-
stein. 2023. Generative agents: Interactive simulacra
of human behavior. InProceedings of the 36th an-
nual acm symposium on user interface software and
technology, pages 1–22.
Ofir Press, Noah A Smith, and Mike Lewis. 2021a.
Train short, test long: Attention with linear biases
enables input length extrapolation.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2108.12409.
Ofir Press, No

=== PAGE 11 ===
Somin Wadhwa, Silvio Amir, and Byron C Wallace.
2023. Revisiting relation extraction in the era of large
language models. InProceedings of the conference.
association for computational linguistics. meeting,
volume 2023, page 15566.
Yu Wang and Xi Chen. 2025. Mirix: Multi-agent mem-
ory system for llm-based agents.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2507.07957.
Zheng Wang, Shu Teo, Jieer Ouyang, Yongjun Xu, and
Wei Shi. 2024. M-rag: Reinforcing large language
model performance through retrieval-augmented gen-
eration with multiple partitions. InProceedings
of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers),
pages 1966–1978.
Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten
Bosma, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V Le, Denny Zhou,
and 1 others. 2022. Chain-of-thought prompting elic-
its reasoning in large language models.Advances
in neural information processing systems, 35:24824–
24837.
Di Wu, Hongwei Wang, Wenhao Yu, Yuwei Zhang,
Kai-Wei Chang, and Dong Yu. 2024. Longmemeval:
Benchmarking chat assistants on long-term interac-
tive memory.arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.10813.
Zhiheng Xi, Wenxiang Chen, Xin Guo, Wei He, Yi-
wen Ding, Boyang Hong, Ming Zhang, Junzhe Wang,
Senjie Jin, Enyu Zhou, and 1 others. 2025. The
rise and potential of large language model based
agents: A survey.Science China Information Sci-
ences, 68(2):121101.
Wujiang Xu, Zujie Liang, Kai Mei, Hang Gao, Jun-
tao Tan, and Yongfeng Zhang. 2025. A-mem:
Agentic memory for llm agents.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2502.12110.
Zhuosheng Zhang, Yao Yao, Aston Zhang, Xiangru
Tang, Xinbei Ma, Zhiwei He, Yiming Wang, Mark
Gerstein, Rui Wang, Gongshen Liu, and 1 others.
2025. Igniting language intelligence: The hitch-
hiker’s guide from chain-of-thought reasoning to lan-
guage agents.ACM Computing Surveys, 57(8):1–39.
Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin Chiang, Ying Sheng, Siyuan
Zhuang, Zhanghao Wu, Yonghao Zhuang, Zi Lin,
Zhuohan Li, Dacheng Li, Eric Xing, and 1 others.
2023. Judging llm-as-a-judge with mt-bench and
chatbot arena.Advances in neural information pro-
cessing systems, 36:46595–46623.
Wanjun Zhong, Lianghong Guo, Qiqi Gao, He Ye, and
Yanlin Wang. 2024. Memorybank: Enhancing large
language models with long-term memory. InPro-
ceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelli-
gence, volume 38, pages 19724–19731.

=== PAGE 12 ===
A Related Work
Following the framing in main text, we organize
related work along the same progression: from
context window extension to retrieval augmented
generation (RAG) and finally to memory aug-
mented generation (MAG), and then discuss struc-
tured/graph memories and causal reasoning, which
are central to long-horizon agentic interactions.
Context-window Extension.A direct line of work
extends the effective context length of Transform-
ers by modifying attention or positional extrap-
olation. Longformer (Beltagy et al., 2020b) in-
troduces sparse attention patterns to scale to long
documents, reducing quadratic cost while retain-
ing locality and selected global connectivity. AL-
iBi (Press et al., 2021b) (Attention with Linear
Biases) enables length extrapolation by injecting
distance-aware linear biases into attention scores,
improving robustness when testing on longer se-
quences than those seen in training. Recent efforts
also add explicit memory modules or hybrid mech-
anisms to push beyond pure attention-window scal-
ing. For example, LM2 (Kang et al., 2025c) pro-
poses a decoder-only architecture augmented with
an auxiliary memory to mitigate long-context lim-
itations. MemoRAG (Qian et al., 2025) similarly
emphasizes global-memory-enhanced retrieval to
boost long-context processing when raw context is
insufficient or inefficient. While these approaches
improve long-range coverage, they do not, by them-
selves, address the continual, evolving, and write-
back nature of agent memory required for multi-
session interactions.
Retrieval Augmented Generation.RAG (Lewis
et al., 2020) augments an LLM with external re-
trieval over a fixed corpus, classically retrieving
supporting passages and conditioning generation
on them. Subsequent work explores better inte-
gration with long-context models and more scal-
able retrieval pipelines. LongRAG (Jiang et al.,
2024) studies how to exploit long-context LLMs
together with retrieval, improving the ability to
incorporate larger retrieved evidence sets. Other
systems focus on structuring the retrieved memory
space or optimizing the RAG serving stack: M-
RAG (Wang et al., 2024) uses multiple partitions
to encourage fine-grained retrieval focus, while
RAGO (Jiang et al., 2025) provides a systematic
framework for performance optimization in RAG
serving. However, standard RAG typically assumes
a static knowledge base. In contrast, agentic set-tings require memory that is continuously updated
(the feedback loop described in the main text). This
motivates the shift to MAG systems, where mem-
ory is dynamic and evolves with interaction histo-
ries.
Memory Augmented Generation and Agent
Memory Systems.MAG systems maintain and up-
date an external memory over time, enabling agents
to accumulate knowledge, preserve identity, and re-
main coherent across sessions. Early and represen-
tative directions include memory construction and
write-back strategies for long-term agent behav-
ior, such as MemoryBank (Zhong et al., 2024) and
generative agents style architectures that empha-
size persistent profiles and evolving state grounded
in past interactions (Nan et al., 2025; Maharana
et al., 2024). A growing body of work adopts sys-
tems metaphors and designs: MemGPT (Packer
et al., 2023) frames LLM agents with an operating-
system-like memory hierarchy, emphasizing pag-
ing and controlled context management. More re-
cent memory OS systems propose explicit storage
hierarchies and controllers (e.g., MemoryOS (Kang
et al., 2025b), MemOS (Li et al., 2025)) to manage
persistence and retrieval policies at scale. In addi-
tion, practical agent-memory stacks (e.g., Zep (Ras-
mussen et al., 2025)) offer temporal knowledge-
graph-based memory services aimed at real-world
deployment constraints.
Structured memory: chains-of-thought and
graph-based representations.Beyond flat text
buffers or vector stores, several methods explicitly
structure memory to support reasoning. Think-in-
Memory (TiM) stores evo

=== PAGE 13 ===
ory around associative proximity (semantic related-
ness) rather than mechanistic dependency.
Causal reasoning and long-horizon evaluation.
Causal reasoning has been highlighted as both im-
portant and challenging for LLMs. The work (Kici-
man et al., 2023) study LLMs’ ability to generate
causal arguments across multiple causal tasks and
emphasize robustness/failure modes, reinforcing
that what happened retrieval is not sufficient for
why reasoning in many settings. Benchmarking
efforts such as LoCoMo (Maharana et al., 2024)
stress long-range temporal and causal dynamics in
multi-session conversations and provide evaluation
tasks that expose long-horizon memory deficits.
The paper’s experimental setup also uses Long-
MemEval (Wu et al., 2024) as an ultra-long context
stress test, and evaluates via LLM-as-a-Judge proto-
cols standard in modern instruction-following eval-
uation. Overall, prior work demonstrates steady
progress in (i) scaling context length, (ii) improv-
ing retrieval pipelines, and (iii) building struc-
tured, evolving memories for agents. The main
text positions MAGMA within this trajectory by
explicitly targeting multi-relational structure (se-
mantic/temporal/causal/entity) and intent-aware re-
trieval control.
B System Implementation Details
B.1 Hyperparameter Configuration
Table 5 presents the comprehensive configuration
used in our experiments. These parameters were
empirically optimized on the LoCoMo benchmark.
Notably, MAGMA employs anAdaptive Scoring
mechanism where weights ( λ) shift dynamically
based on the detected query intent.
C Prompt Library
MAGMA employs a sophisticated prompt strategy
with three distinct types, each optimized for spe-
cific cognitive tasks within the memory pipeline.
C.1 Event Extraction Prompt
(JSON-Structured)
To ensure robustness against hallucination and pars-
ing errors, this module employs a strict JSON
schema enforcement strategy. The prompt explic-
itly defines the extraction targets to ensure down-
stream graph integrity, capturing not just entities
but also semantic relationships and temporal mark-
ers.Table 5: Hyperparameter settings for MAGMA. "Traver-
sal Weights" correspond to the intent-specific vector
wTq, while λ1andλ2control the global balance be-
tween structural alignment and semantic affinity (Eq. 5).
Module Parameter Value/Range
EmbeddingModel (Default)all-MiniLM-L6-v2
Model (Optional)text-embedding-3-small
Dimension 384 / 1536
InferenceLLM Backbonegpt-4o-mini
Temperature 0.0
Retrieval (Phase 1)RRF Constant (k) 60
Vector Top-K 20
wkeyword (Fusion) 2.0 – 5.0
Sim. Threshold 0.10–0.30
Traversal (Phase 2)Max Depth 5 hops
Max Nodes 200
Drop Threshold 0.15
Adaptive Weights
(Eq.??)λ1(Structure Coef.) 1.0 (Base)
λ2(Semantic Coef.) 0.3 – 0.7
wentity (inw Tq) 2.5 – 6.0
wtemporal (inw Tq) 0.5 – 4.0
wcausal (inw Tq) 3.0 – 5.0
wphrase (inw Tq) 2.5 – 5.0
System Prompt: Event Extractor
System Role:You are an automated Graph Memory
Parser. Your task is to extract structured metadata
from raw conversational logs to build a knowledge
graph.
Input Data:
• Speaker: {speaker}
• Text: {text}
• Context: {prev_summary}
Instructions:Analyze the input and returnONLYa
valid JSON object matching the specific schema
below. Do not include markdown formatting.
Target Schema:
•"entities": List of proper nouns (People,
Locations, Organizations).
•"topic" : String (1–3 words representing the main
theme).
•"relationships": List of strings describing
interactions (e.g., "X researches Y").
•"semantic_facts": List of atomic facts
preserving key information.
•"dates_mentioned": List of temporal strings
(e.g., "next Friday", "2024-01-01").
•"summary": One-sentence summary preserving
speaker attribution.
C.2 Query-Adaptive QA Prompt
The generation prompt begins with a strict persona
definition and appends specific reasoning instruc-
tions dynamically based on the Router’s classifica-
tion (e.g., Multi-hop, Temporal, Open-domain).
System Prompt: Adaptive QA
System Role:You are a precision QA assi

=== PAGE 14 ===
Current Query:
• Question: {question}
• Constraints: {category_specific_constraints}
Instructions:
1. Use ONLY information explicitly stated in the
context.
2.If the answer is not present, respond exactly with
"Information not found".
3.Be concise (typically 1–10 words) unless detailed
reasoning is required.
4.{dynamic_instruction}// Automatically
generated by our engine’s query classifier/router
(no oracle labels)
Answer:
*Dynamic Instruction Injection Candi-
dates:
•[Multi-hop]:"Connect related facts
across different nodes. For comparison
queries (e.g., ’both/all’), identify com-
monalities between entities rather than
listing individual details."
•[Temporal]:"Resolve relative dates (e.g.,
’yesterday’) using the event timestamps.
Output dates strictly in ’D Month YYYY’
format. Calculate durations if asked."
•[Open-Domain/Inference]:"Make
reasonable inferences based on the
user’s personality traits, interests, and
past behaviors. Support hypotheti-
cal (’would/could’) reasoning with
evidence."
•[Single-hop/Factual]:"Extract the spe-
cific entity, name, or method requested.
Do not add explanations. Return the ex-
act fact matching the query intent."
C.3 Evaluation Prompt (LLM-as-a-Judge)
To ensure rigorous evaluation beyond simple n-
gram overlapping, we employ a semantic scor-
ing mechanism. The Judge LLM evaluates the
alignment between the generated response and the
ground truth using the following schema.
System Prompt: Semantic Grader
You are an expert evaluator assessing the semantic
fidelity of a memory retrieval system. Score the
Candidate Answer against the Gold Reference on
a continuous scale [0.0, 1.0].
Scoring Rubric:
•1.0 (Exact Alignment):Captures all key entities,
temporal markers, and causal relationships.
Semantically equivalent.
•0.8 (Substantially Correct):Main point is
accurate but lacks minor nuances or secondary
details.•0.6 (Partial Match):Contains valid information
but misses key constraints (e.g., wrong date but
correct event).
•0.4 (Tangential):Touches on the topic but misses
the core information requirement.
•0.2 (Incoherent):Factually incorrect with only
minimal topical overlap.
•0.0 (Contradiction/Hallucination):Completely
unrelated or contradicts the ground truth.
Evaluation Constraints:
1.Temporal Flexibility:Accept relative time
references (e.g., "next Tuesday") if they resolve
to the same period as the Gold Reference.
2.Semantic Equivalence:Prioritize informational
content over lexical matching.
3.Adversarial Handling:If the Gold Reference
states "Unanswerable", the Candidate MUST
explicitly state lack of information. Any
hallucinated fact results in 0.0.
Input:Question: {question} | Gold: {gold} |
Candidate: {generated}
Output:JSON{"score": float, "reasoning":
"concise explanation"}
D Baseline Configurations
To ensure a fair and rigorous comparison, we stan-
dardized the experimental environment across all
systems. Specifically, we adhered to the following
protocols:
•Full Context Baseline:We implemented a
"Full Context" baseline where the entire avail-
able conversation history is fed directly into
the LLM’s context window (up to the 128k
token limit of gpt-4o-mini ). This serves
as a "brute-force" reference to evaluate the
model’s native long-context capabilities with-
out external retrieval mechanisms.
•Retrieval-Based Baselines:For all baseline
systems (e.g., AMem, Nemori, MemoryOS),
we applied their official default hyperparam-
eters and storage settings to reflect their stan-
dard out-of-the-box performance.
•Unified Backbone Model:To eliminate per-
formance variance caused by different foun-
dation models, all systems utilized OpenAI’s
gpt-4o-mini for both retrieval reasoning and
response generation.
•Unified Evaluation:All system outputs were
evaluated using the identicalLLM-as-a-Judge
framework (also powered by gpt-4o-mini
with temperature=0.0), as detailed in Ap-
pendix C.

=== PAGE 15 ===
Dataset Statistics.We conducted a comprehen-
sive evaluation on the full LoCoMo benchmark,
testing across all five cognitive categories to assess
varying levels of retrieval complexity. The detailed
distribution of query types is presented in Table 6.
Table 6: Distribution of query categories in the LoCoMo
benchmark used for evaluation.
Query Category Count
Single-Hop Retrieval 841
Adversarial 446
Temporal Reasoning 321
Multi-Hop Reasoning 282
Open Domain 96
Total Samples 1,986
E Case Study
To demonstrate MAGMA’s reasoning capabili-
ties across different cognitive modalities, we ana-
lyze three real-world scenarios from the LoCoMo
benchmark. Table 7 provides a side-by-side com-
parison of MAGMA against key baselines (A-
MEM, Nemori, MemoryOS).
E.1 Detailed Analysis
Case 1: Overcoming Information Loss (Re-
call).For the query regarding instruments, A-
MEM failed completely due to its summarization
process abstracting away specific details ("violin")
from early sessions. Other RAG baselines only re-
trieved the "clarinet" due to surface-level semantic
matching. MAGMA, however, maintains an entity-
centric graph structure. Instead of relying on rigid
schemas, MAGMA queries the local neighborhood
of the [Entity: Melanie] node. This allows it to
capture diverse natural language predicates (e.g.,
"playing my violin", "started clarinet") and aggre-
gate disjoint facts into a comprehensive answer,
demonstrating robustness against information loss.
Case 2: Multi-Hop Reasoning vs. Surface Ex-
traction.The query "How many children?" ex-
poses a critical weakness in standard RAG: the
inability to perform arithmetic across contexts.
Baselines simply extracted the explicit mention
of "two children" from a photo caption. In contrast,
MAGMA treated this as a graph traversal problem
focused on entity resolution. It queried the neigh-
borhood of [Entity: Melanie] for connected
nodes of type Person . By analyzing the semantic
edges, specifically distinguishing the "two kids"entity in the canyon photo from the "son" entity
involved in the car accident, MAGMA synthesized
these distinct nodes. It correctly deduced that the
"son" (referenced later as "brother") was an addi-
tional individual, summing up to a count of "at
least three," a logical leap impossible for systems
relying solely on vector similarity.
Case 3: Temporal Grounding.When asked
"When did she hike?", baselines either halluci-
nated or defaulted to the conversation timestamp
(Oct 20). This ignores the semantic meaning
of the user’s statement: "we just did ityester-
day." MAGMA’s structured ingestion pipeline nor-
malizes relative dates during graph construction.
The event was stored with the resolved attribute
date="2023-10-19" , making the retrieval trivial
and exact, completely bypassing the ambiguity that
confused the LLM-based baselines.
F Metric Validation Analysis
To validate our choice of using an LLM-based
Judge over traditional lexical metrics, we con-
ducted a granular failure analysis on seven repre-
sentative test cases. Table 9 details the quantitative
breakdown.
F.1 Rationale for Semantic Scoring
Our empirical results reveal two critical failure
modes where standard metrics (F1, BLEU-1) di-
rectly contradict human judgment:
1.False Rewards(The “Hallucination” Prob-
lem): Lexical metrics heavily reward incorrect
answers that share surface-level tokens.
•In Case 3, a direct negation (“compatible”
vs. “notcompatible”) yields a remark-
ably high F1 of 0.857, treating a fatal
contradiction as a near-perfect match.
•In Case 6, substituting the wrong entity
(“John” vs. “Sarah”) still achievesF1
0.750, rewarding the hallucinatory out-
put.
2.False Penalties(The “Phrasing” Problem):
Valid answers with different formatting or syn-
onyms are unfairly penalized.
•In Case 4 (Time Notation) and Case 5
(Synonyms), F1 and BLEU scores drop
to 0.000 despite the answers being se-
mantically identical.

