=== PAGE 1 ===
Plan-on-Graph: Self-Correcting Adaptive Planning of
Large Language Model on Knowledge Graphs
Liyi Chen1,2†, Panrong Tong2, Zhongming Jin2, Ying Sun3, Jieping Ye2∗, Hui Xiong3,4∗
1University of Science and Technology of China,2Alibaba Cloud Computing,
3Thrust of Artificial Intelligence, The Hong Kong University of Science and
Technology (Guangzhou),4Department of Computer Science and Engineering,
The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology
liyichencly@gmail.com, yings@hkust-gz.edu.cn, xionghui@ust.hk,
{panrong.tpr, zhongming.jinzm, yejieping.ye}@alibaba-inc.com
Abstract
Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable reasoning capabilities
on complex tasks, but they still suffer from out-of-date knowledge, hallucinations,
and opaque decision-making. In contrast, Knowledge Graphs (KGs) can provide
explicit and editable knowledge for LLMs to alleviate these issues. Existing
paradigm of KG-augmented LLM manually predefines the breadth of exploration
space and requires flawless navigation in KGs. However, this paradigm cannot
adaptively explore reasoning paths in KGs based on the question semantics and
self-correct erroneous reasoning paths, resulting in a bottleneck in efficiency and
effect. To address these limitations, we propose a novel self-correcting adaptive
planning paradigm for KG-augmented LLM named Plan-on-Graph (PoG), which
first decomposes the question into several sub-objectives and then repeats the
process of adaptively exploring reasoning paths, updating memory, and reflecting
on the need to self-correct erroneous reasoning paths until arriving at the answer.
Specifically, three important mechanisms of Guidance ,Memory , and Reflection
are designed to work together, to guarantee the adaptive breadth of self-correcting
planning for graph reasoning. Finally, extensive experiments on three real-world
datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of PoG.
1 Introduction
Large Language Models (LLMs) have manifested outstanding performance in various natural
language processing and data science tasks, such as question answering [ 42,25,62], text gen-
eration [ 18,13,8,15], recommender systems [ 60,59,51,44], and domain-specific applica-
tions [ 46,45,14,50,36]. They leverage advanced deep learning techniques and immense amounts of
pre-existing text data to understand and generate human language with impressive fluency and coher-
ence. Despite their success in numerous applications, LLMs still suffer from out-of-date knowledge,
hallucinations, and opaque decision-making, highlighting the ongoing need for further investigation
in this rapidly evolving field.
Intuitively, as large-scale structural knowledge bases, Knowledge Graphs (KGs) [ 5,1,12,43] provide
explicit and editable depictions of massive real-world knowledge, which have the potential to be a
promising complement to the drawbacks of LLMs. Previous studies manage to integrate KGs into
LLM pre-training [ 61,47] or fine-tuning [ 53,27] stage. However, these methods mainly compress
structured knowledge in KGs into LLMs’ parameters in a black-box fashion and still cannot fully
†This work was accomplished when Liyi Chen was an intern at Alibaba Cloud Computing.
*Corresponding authors.
38th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2024).arXiv:2410.23875v1  [cs.AI]  31 Oct 2024

=== PAGE 2 ===
TaylorSwiftRelevantTriplets: No information related to the “American Music Awards”. Therefore, there are no relevant triplets.Enough Information: No.Next Action: Endretrievalanddirectlyanswer “Love Story” without usinginformation from knowledge graphs.Question: Which of TaylorSwift’s songs has won American Music Awards (AMA)?Answer: Blank Space.AlbumSongSongSongAmericaSong…
LLMReasoningKGRetrievingKGRetrieving①
LLMReasoning②③
④Blank SpaceSpeakNowNationalityReadingBorninThe Joker And The QueenShake It OffRelevant
、
AlbumSongSongSongAmericaSong…SpeakNowNationalityReadingBorninThe Joker And The QueenShake It OffCruel SummerIrrelevant
BlankSpaceSong…Song…TaylorSwiftThe Joker And The QueenShake It OffCruel SummerEdSheeranAwardComposer2022-02-11ReleaseDateCruel SummerMTV VMALoverinAlbumBRIT AwardAward………
The Joker And The QueenShake It OffCruel SummerEdSheeranAwardComposer2022-02-11ReleaseDateMTV VMALoverinAlbumBRIT AwardAward………RelevantTriplets: Select mostrelevant triplets (Breadth ≤ 3),because “The Joker And The Queen”, “Shake It Off”, and “Cruel Summer” are songs of Taylor. Enough Information: No.Next Action: Continue retrieving connected entities for relevant triplets.RelevantIrrelevantFigure 1: A toy example of existing KG-augmented LLM paradigm.
enhance the flexibility, reliability, and transparency of LLMs. Therefore, several attempts [ 3,2,40]
first retrieve information from KGs and then deliver explicit knowledge into LLMs. Under these
circumstances, LLMs do not directly participate in the graph reasoning process, making these methods
excessively dependent on the KG completeness. Recently, a KG-augmented LLM paradigm has
been proposed to conduct graph reasoning, which treats the LLM as an agent to interactively explore
related entities and relations on KGs and perform reasoning based on the retrieved knowledge. For
instance, StructGPT [ 19] and ToG [ 35] predefine the breadth of reasoning paths explored on the KG,
and leverage the LLM to iterate the process of unidirectionally extending along the reasoning paths
relevant to the question and reasoning the answer using these reasoning paths. This KG-augmented
LLM paradigm offers an opportunity for more comprehensively amalgamating the knowledge from
both the KG and LLM by facilitating the step-by-step derivation of further insights.
However, existing paradigm may fail to plan the exploration of correct reasoning paths for many
complex questions. Figure 1 illustrates an example of existing paradigm’s limitations when answering
the question “Which of Taylor Swift’s songs has won American Music Awards? (AMA)”. These
limitations lie in: (1) Predefined path breadth : Existing paradigm requires manually setting the
breadth of reasoning paths in KGs, and a fixed breadth may result in all the selected relations or
entities being incorrect. When determining the relevance between paths and questions in step 2⃝, due
to the limited maximum breadth of three and the uncertainty surrounding the respective awards of
songs, the LLM selected maximum numbers of songs, ignoring the correct entity “Blank Space”. (2)
Irreversible exploration direction : The path exploration in existing paradigm is unidirectional without
the ability to self-correct. Even if the paths are incorrect, the LLM still continues to extend current
incorrect paths and lead to the failure of reasoning on the KG. In step 3⃝and 4⃝, since “The Joker
And The Queen”, “Shake It Off”, and “Cruel Summer” were already chosen, the reasoning process
continued on incorrect paths and the right answer was not found. (3) Forgetting partial conditions :
During reasoning, the LLM may forget partial conditions in the question and cannot provide the
answer that satisfies multiple conditions simultaneously. In step 4⃝, the LLM only remembered the
condition that the song was by Taylor Swift but forgot the condition about the song winning an AMA
award, leading to an incorrect answer, “Love Story”. Therefore, the reasoning of complex questions
ma

=== PAGE 3 ===
the question into several sub-objectives as guidance for planning exploration, and then repeats the
process of adaptively exploring reasoning paths to access relevant KG data, updating memory to
provide dynamic evidence for reflection, and reflecting on the need to self-correct reasoning paths
until arriving at the answer. In PoG, three mechanisms are designed for adaptive self-correcting
planning: (1) Guidance : To better guide adaptive exploration by harnessing conditions in the question,
we employ the LLM to decompose the question into sub-objectives containing conditions, thereby
benefiting the identification of relevant paths to each condition with flexible exploration breadth. (2)
Memory : The information stored in memory offers historical retrieval and reasoning information
for reflection. We record and update the subgraph to provide the LLM with all retrieved entities for
initializing new exploration and self-correcting paths, reasoning paths to preserve the relationships
between entities for LLM reasoning and allow for path correction, and sub-objective status to make
the LLM recognize the known information of each condition and mitigate its forgetting in reflection
stage. (3) Reflection : To determine whether to continue or self-correct current reasoning paths, we
design a reflection mechanism to employ the LLM to reason whether to consider other entities into
new exploration and decide which entities to backtrack to for self-correction based on information in
memory. Finally, extensive experiments on three real-world KGQA datasets validate the effectiveness
and efficiency of PoG1. The main contributions of this paper are listed as follows:
•We propose a novel self-correcting adaptive planning paradigm for KG-augmented LLM
named PoG, which exploits the LLM to plan the adaptive breadth of reasoning paths and
reflect to self-correct erroneous paths. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to
incorporate a reflection mechanism for self-correction and adaptive KG exploration into
KG-augmented LLMs, effectively augmenting the LLM’s reasoning ability.
•We specially design Guidance, Memory, and Reflection mechanisms for PoG. Guidance
harnesses question conditions to better plan adaptive exploration by decomposing task into
sub-objectives including conditions. Memory records the subgraph, reasoning paths, and
sub-objective status to provide historical retrieval and reasoning information for Reflection.
Based on Memory, Reflection reasons whether to self-correct reasoning paths and which entity
to backtrack to for initiating new exploration.
•We conduct extensive experiments on three real-world KGQA datasets, namely CWQ, We-
bQSP, and GrailQA. The results demonstrate not only the effectiveness but also the efficiency
of our proposed novel PoG paradigm for KG-augmented LLM.
2 Preliminary
Knowledge Graph (KG) stores massive factual knowledge in the form of a set of triplets: G=
{(e, r, e′)|e, e′∈E, r∈R}, where EandRdenote the set of entities and relations, respectively.
Relation Paths are a sequence of relations: z={r1, r2, ..., r l}, where ri∈Rdenotes the i-th
relation in the path and ldenotes the length of the path.
Reasoning Paths are the instances of a relation path zin the KG: pz=e0→r1e1→r2e2→...→
rlel, where ei∈Edenotes the i-th entity and ridenotes the i-th relation in the relation path z.
Knowledge Graph Question Answering (KGQA) is the task of answering natural language ques-
tions based on a set of facts over the KG. Given a question q, a knowledge graph G, and topic entities
Tqmentioned in q, the target of KGQA is to generate answers Aqto the question q. Following
previous studies [ 35], we assume any entity eq∈Tqmentioned in qand answers aq∈Aqare labeled
and linked to the corresponding entities in G, i.e.,Tq, Aq⊆E.
3 Methodology
In this section, we introduce the technical details of the novel self-correcting adaptive planning
paradigm for KG-augmented LLM named Plan-on-Graph (PoG). As illustrated in Figure 2,

=== PAGE 4 ===
EvaluationNo awards information of “The Joker And The Queen”, “Shake It Off”, and “Cruel Summer”, soI need to continue.Memory UpdatingTask: Answer the question “Which of Taylor Swift’ s songs has won American Music Awards (AMA)?” Sub-Objectives: 1. Find the songs of Taylor Swift. 2. Find the awards thesesongshavewon. 3. Identify the song with American Music Awards (AMA).TaskDecompositionPath Exploration
Continue
Sufficient 
Knowledge
Insufficient
Knowledge
Correct
Output
1. “The Joker And The Queen”, “Shake It Off”, and “Cruel Summer” are the songs of Taylor.2. Norelevant information.3. Norelevant information.Blank SpaceAMA···AwardRelevantIrrelevant…
Subgraph
Reasoning 
Paths
Sub
-
Objectives AlbumSongSongSongAmericaSong…Blank SpaceSpeakNowNationalityReadingBorninThe Joker And The QueenShake It OffSong…TaylorSwiftCruel SummerThe Joker And The QueenShake It OffCruel SummerEdSheeranAwardComposer2022-02-11ReleaseDateMTV VMALoverinAlbumBRITAwardAward………Path ExplorationPath Exploration
Memory
ReflectEvaluation“The Joker And The Queen”, “Shake It Off”, and “Cruel Summer” have not won AMA,soIneedtofindothersongs. I add the songs “Blank Space”,“LoveStory”, … into the following exploration.Memory Updating
Continue
Sufficient 
Knowledge
Insufficient
Knowledge
Correct
Output
1. “The Joker And The Queen”, “Shake It Off”, and “Cruel Summer” are the songs of Taylor.2. “ShakeIt Off”haswonMTVVMAand …3. Norelevant information.
Subgraph
Reasoning 
Paths
Sub
-
Objectives 
Memory
Reflect①②
③
④⑤
⑥
⑦Evaluation“Blank Space” is thesongofTaylor Swift, and it has won AMA. The answer is Blank Space.Memory Updating
Continue
Sufficient 
Knowledge
Insufficient
Knowledge
Correct
Output
Subgraph
Reasoning 
Paths
Sub
-
Objectives 
Memory
Reflect⑨⑧
⑩1. “The Joker …, “Blank Space”, “Love Story”, … are the songs of Taylor.2. “Shake…, and “Blank Space” has won AMA, and “Love Story” has won BMI and …3. “Blank Space” has won AMA.Love StoryBMIAwardCMT Music Awards…Award…Figure 2: The framework overview of PoG, which includes four key components: Task Decomposi-
tion, Path Exploration, Memory Updating, and Evaluation.
3.1 Task Decomposition
To harness conditions in the question to better guide the adaptive exploration process, PoG decom-
poses the task of answering the question into multiple sub-objectives containing conditions through
semantic analysis of the LLM. Sub-objectives serve as guidance for path exploration, benefiting
the identification of relevant paths to each condition outlined in the question with flexible explo-
ration breadth. Specifically, we prompt the LLM to decompose the original question qinto a list of
sub-objectives for KG retrieval and reasoning. The prompt is shown in Appendix A.1. The list of
sub-objectives can be denoted as O={o1, o2, o3, ...}. It is important to note that sub-objectives in O
may refer to the results obtained from other sub-objectives in O, allowing for interdependencies in
the reasoning process.
3.2 Path Exploration
We access relevant information from the KG by exploring reasoning paths in the KG. On the initiation
of path exploration, we localize the initial entities of reasoning paths, which correspond to the topic
entities mentioned in the given question. Similar to prior research [ 19,35], topic entities have been
pre-identified and are part of the annotated datasets. Specifically, when presented with a question q, we
use topic entities to serve as the initial elements of the reasoning paths, E0=Tq={e0
1, e0
2, ..., e0
N0},
where N0is the number of topic entities.
In the subsequent iterations, we continue exploring reasoning paths most relevant to the question and
suspend other reasoning paths. Taking the D-th iteration as an example, before the iteration starts, each
reasoning path pn∈Pconsists of Dpn(Dpn≤D−1)triplets, i.e., pn={(ed
s,n, rd
j,n, ed
o,n)}Dpn
d=1,
where ed
s,nanded
o,ndenote subject and object entities, rd
j,nis a specific relation between them,
(ed
s,n, rd
j,n, ed
o,n)and (ed+1
s,n, rd+1
j,n, ed+1
o,

=== PAGE 5 ===
RD−1. We leverage the LLM to identify the most relevant entities EDfrom the neighboring entities
of the current entity set ED−1based on the question qand extend the reasoning paths PwithED.
In order to manage the complexity of dealing with a large number of neighboring entities using the
LLM, we propose an adaptive exploration strategy that is not limited by the fixed number of relations
and entities. This strategy involves a two-step process of finding relevant relations and utilizing these
selected relations to explore entities.
Relation Exploration. Relation exploration is a process to retrieve the relations of all tail entities
inED−1and identify the most relevant relations to the question qand the sub-objectives O. To
be specific, we first conduct the search to obtain all relations linked to the tail entities in ED−1as
the candidate relation set RD
cand ={rD
cand, 1, rD
cand, 2, ..., rD
cand,N D−1}. We utilize RD
cand to extend
the reasoning paths into candidate reasoning paths Pcand. Then, we employ the LLM to select a
flexible number of relevant reasoning paths Pending with the tail relations in RDfromPcand, based
on the semantic information of the question q, tail entities ED−1, candidate relations RD
cand, and
sub-objectives O. The prompt is shown in Appendix A.2.1, and the pre-defined query for relation
search is shown in Appendix B.1.
Entity Exploration. Analogously, entity exploration is a process to retrieve neighboring entities
based on RDandED−1and detect the most relevant entities to the question q. From the previous
relation exploration, we obtain extended reasoning paths Pand new tail relations RD. For each
reasoning path pn∈P, we can execute the queries of (eD−1
n, rD
n,?)or(?, rD
n, eD−1
n )to retrieve
a candidate entity set ED
cand,n , where eD−1
n andrD
nare the tail entity and relation in pn. When
confronted with a large number of candidate entities, we use a small pre-trained DistilBERT [ 31]2,
to calculate the similarity between candidate entities and the question for recall. Then, we summarize
all candidate entity sets into ED
cand and use ED
cand as the tail entities to expand PintoPcand. With
the candidate reasoning paths Pcand, we exploit the LLM to choose a flexible number of relevant
reasoning paths Pending with the tail entities EDfromPcand, based on the semantic information of
the question qand knowledge triplets composed of tail entities ED−1, tail relations RDand candidate
entities ED
cand. The prompt is shown in Appendix A.2.2, and the pre-defined query for entity search
is shown in Appendix B.2.
3.3 Memory Updating
The information stored in memory provides historical retrieval and reasoning information for reflec-
tion. After a two-step exploration, we dynamically update the searched subgraph GSub, reasoning
paths P, and sub-objective status Sin memory based on the ongoing reasoning process.
Subgraph. The subgraph includes all retrieved relations and entities from the KG. We update the
subgraph in memory, which can be utilized during later reflection to determine which entity to
backtrack to for self-correction. In the D-th iteration, the searched subgraph GSubis updated by
adding the retrieved candidate relation set RD
cand and candidate entity set ED
cand.
Reasoning Paths. In order to ensure that the LLM can understand relationships between entities for
better reasoning and allow for path correction in reflection stage, we update reasoning paths Pto
preserve the semantic structure within the KG.
Sub-Objective Status. The LLM may forget partial conditions in the reasoning process. Sub-
objectives obtained by decomposing the question can help the LLM remember multiple conditions
in the question. The status of sub-objectives contains the current known information related to the
sub-objectives, which can aid the LLM in remembering the known information of each condition and
determining whether to correct the exploration direction in reflection stage. Hence, we leverage the
LLM to update the c

=== PAGE 6 ===
information is sufficient, it will integrate reasoning paths, sub-objective states, and its own knowledge
to provide an answer. When information is considered insufficient, there may be two situations.
One is that PoG will acquire sufficient information after further extension of current paths, and the
other is that current paths are incorrect. Since the reasoning capability of the LLM does not always
guarantee the correctness of path exploration, there is a need to self-correct erroneous reasoning
paths. Therefore, we design a reflection mechanism to determine whether and how to self-correct
reasoning paths. When the LLM believes that the information is insufficient, PoG enters the stage of
reflection. Specifically, PoG utilizes the LLM to reflect on whether to correct the current exploration
direction based on the question q, sub-objective status S, reasoning paths P, and entities planned
for the next iteration of retrieval EDfrom memory. Besides, the LLM will provide the reason for
the reflection result. If the LLM judges that it is necessary to incorporate additional entities beyond
those in EDfor exploration, then a self-correction of reasoning paths is needed. Otherwise, PoG will
continue exploring along the current reasoning paths with tail entities in ED. For self-correction,
PoG employs the LLM to decide which entities in Ecand=E1
cand∪E2
cand∪...∪ED
candto backtrack to
based on sub-objective states in Sand the reason for additional retrieval obtained from the reflection,
and adds new exploration of backtracked entities ED
addintoEDfor the self-correction, denoted as
ED=ED∪ED
add. The prompts for reflection are shown in Appendix A.4.2.
4 Experiments
4.1 Experimental Setups
4.1.1 Datasets & Evaluation Metrics
To demonstrate the effectiveness of PoG on complex reasoning over knowledge graphs, we adopt three
representative multi-hop KGQA datasets: CWQ [ 37], WebQSP [ 56], and GrailQA [ 17]. All three
datasets rely on the external knowledge graph from Freebase [ 5]. For the large dataset GrailQA, we
utilize the same testing samples as those in ToG [ 35] to improve computational efficiency. Following
prior research [23, 19, 35], we use exact match accuracy (Hits@1) as the evaluation metric.
4.1.2 Comparison Methods
Due to variations in the performance of the method across different datasets, we select prior state-of-
the-art (SOTA) approaches as baselines for each dataset. They can be categorized into two groups:
(1)LLM-only methods , including standard prompting (IO prompt) [ 6], Chain-of-Thought prompting
Table 1: Performance comparison of different
methods on CWQ and WebQSP.
Method CWQ WebQSP
LLM-Only
IO Prompt [6] 37.6 63.3
CoT [49] 38.8 62.2
SC [48] 45.4 61.1
Fine-Tuned KG-Augmented LLM
UniKGQA [20] 51.2 79.1
TIARA [34] - 75.2
RE-KBQA [7] 50.3 74.6
DeCAF [57] 70.4 82.1
RoG [27] 62.6 85.7
Prompting KG-Augmented LLM w/GPT-3.5 or others
KD-CoT [41] 50.5 73.7
KB-BINDER [23] - 74.4
StructGPT [19] 54.3 72.6
ToG [35] 57.1 76.2
PoG 63.2 82.0
Prompting KG-Augmented LLM w/GPT-4
InteractiveKBQA [52] 59.2 72.5
ToG [35] 67.6 82.6
PoG 75.0 87.3(CoT) [ 49], and Self-Consistency (SC) [ 48].
(2)KG-augmented LLM methods , including
fine-tuned and prompting methods. For CWQ
and WebQSP, we utilize UniKGQA [ 20],
TIARA [ 34], RE-KBQA [ 7], DeCAF [ 57],
and RoG [ 27] as fine-tuned baselines and KD-
CoT [ 41], KB-BINDER [ 23], StructGPT [ 19],
Interactive KBQA [ 52], and ToG [ 35] as prompt-
ing baselines. For GrailQA, we utilize RnG-
KBQA [ 55], TIARA [ 34], FC-KBQA [ 58],
Pangu [ 16], FlexKBQA [ 26], and GAIN [ 33] as
fine-tuned baselines and KB-BINDER [ 23] and
ToG [ 35] as prompting baselines. The descrip-
tions of baselines are presented in Appendix D.
4.2 Performance Comparison
We compare PoG with the SOTA baselines to
demonstrate its effectiveness for KG-augmented
LLM. Table 1 and Table 2 present the experi-
mental results on CWQ, WebQSP, and GrailQA
datasets. Overall, PoG achieves the best per-
formance across all three datasets. Sp

=== PAGE 7 ===
Table 2: Performance comparison of different methods on GrailQA.
MethodGrailQA
Overall I.I.D. Compositional Zero-shot
LLM-Only
IO Prompt [6] 29.4 - - -
CoT [49] 28.1 - - -
SC [48] 29.6 - - -
Fine-Tuned KG-Augmented LLM
RnG-KBQA [55] 68.8 86.2 63.8 63.0
TIARA [34] 73.0 87.8 69.2 68.0
FC-KBQA [58] 73.2 88.5 70.0 67.6
Pangu [16] 75.4 84.4 74.6 71.6
FlexKBQA [26] 62.8 71.3 59.1 60.6
GAIN [33] 76.3 88.5 73.7 71.8
Prompting KG-Augmented LLM w/GPT-3.5 or others
KB-BINDER [23] 50.6 - - -
ToG [35] 68.7 70.1 56.1 72.7
PoG 76.5 76.3 62.1 81.7
Prompting KG-Augmented LLM w/GPT-4
ToG [35] 81.4 79.4 67.3 86.5
PoG 84.7 87.9 69.7 88.6
GPT-4 is used as the underlying LLM, PoG substantially outperforms the SOTA baseline, ToG. ToG
explores reasoning paths with a fixed exploration breadth and cannot detect or correct the errors,
showing limitations in effect and efficiency. Meantime, we specially design self-correction and
adaptive planning mechanisms, which can effectively improve both performance and efficiency.
Second, although PoG is a training-free prompting method, its performance is highly competitive
with fine-tuned KG-augmented LLM baselines. When using GPT-4, the performance of PoG exceeds
all fine-tuned KG-augmented LLM baselines across the board. Even with GPT-3.5, the result of PoG
on GrailQA surpasses all fine-tuned KG-augmented LLM methods. This suggests that our designed
guidance, memory, and reflection mechanisms allow PoG’s effect to surpass most of the fine-tuned
methods. Third, the improvement of PoG is obvious when compared to LLM-only baselines, which
do not leverage external KGs. Besides, all KG-augmented LLM methods consistently outperform
LLM-only methods, indicating the value of incorporating KGs to enhance LLM performance. More-
over, PoG further improves the effectiveness of KG-augmented LLMs through its self-correctable
adaptive planning. Additionally, it is worth noting that PoG with GPT-3.5 outperforms other methods
on the zero-shot subset of the GrailQA dataset by a large margin, apparently outperforming all
fine-tuned KG-augmented LLMs on this category. The self-correction mechanism in PoG allows it to
dynamically correct errors during the reasoning process, which is crucial for zero-shot problems.
4.3 Ablation Study Table 3: Performance of removing each mecha-
nism and adaptive exploration, respectively.
Method CWQ WebQSP GrailQA
PoG 63.2 82.0 76.5
w/o Guidance 60.1 80.3 72.4
w/o Memory 58.9 77.5 69.3
w/o Reflection 59.4 78.1 70.5
w/o Adaptive Breadth 61.3 80.2 73.8In order to assess the effectiveness of each mech-
anism and adaptive exploration in PoG, we con-
duct the ablation study to remove them on three
datasets, respectively. Specifically, w/o Guid-
ance refers to the variant where entire task de-
composition as guidance is removed. w/o Mem-
ory indicates the variant without the memory
mechanism. w/o Reflection refers to the variant
where, in the case of insufficient information, it only continues exploring along the original reasoning
paths. w/o Adaptive Breadth means that the variant uses a fixed exploration space breadth instead
of adapting it based on the situation. Table 3 shows the performance of all variants and the results
suggest that each mechanism and adaptive breadth appears to contribute positively to the overall
performance, with their removal leading to weaker results on complex question answering tasks
across the evaluated datasets. These variations achieve a minimum reduction of 3.0%, 2.1%, and
3.5% on CWQ, WebQSP, and GrailQA, respectively. The performance of w/o Memory drops the
7

=== PAGE 8 ===
Table 4: Efficiency comparison between our proposed PoG and the baseline ToG.
Dataset Method LLM Call Input Token Output Token Total Token Time (s)
CWQToG 22.6 8,182.9 1,486.4 9,669.4 96.5
PoG 13.3 7,803.0 353.2 8,156.2 23.3
WebQSPToG 15.9 6,031.2 987.7 7,018.9 63.1
PoG 9.0 5,234.8 282.9 5,517.7 16.8
GrailQAToG 11.1 4,066.0 774.6 4,840.6 50.2
PoG 6.5 3,372.8 202.8 3,575.6 11.5
most, followed by w/o Reflection, because without the memory there is no information to support
PoG in navigating the exploration and achieving self-correction, and PoG cannot self-correct the
wrong reasoning paths without the reflection mechanism. Moreover, after setting a fixed maximum
breadth for exploration, the performance deteriorates. This indicates that a fixed breadth makes the
method lack flexibility and less adaptable to different questions. However, because the mechanisms
of memory and reflection ensure that PoG is able to self-correct, the performance of w/o Adaptive
Breadth does not decrease a lot.
4.4 Efficiency Study
We study the efficiency of PoG and the SOTA prompting KG-augmented LLM baseline, ToG. Table 4
presents the average LLM call, token consumption, and time required by both methods to answer
a question across three datasets. In all datasets, PoG demonstrates clear advantages over ToG in
terms of all metrics. For average number of LLM calls, PoG consistently requires fewer calls to
the LLM, and reduces it by at least 40.8%. This highlights PoG’s ability to reason more efficiently
with fewer LLM interactions. Regarding token consumption, PoG exhibits a notable advantage
in both input and output token usage. On CWQ, compared to ToG’s input tokens, PoG shows a
reduction of approximately 4.6% in input token consumption. As for output tokens, PoG produces
just 353.159 output tokens, representing a substantial decrease of roughly 76.2%. This indicates
the effectiveness of PoG in reducing the overall token consumption during the reasoning process.
Most importantly, PoG achieves superior time efficiency compared to ToG. On CWQ and GrailQA,
PoG presents a speedup of over 4 times. ToG predefines the breadth of exploration, leading to the
exploration of many irrelevant paths. Additionally, ToG lacks a self-correction mechanism, and when
there is insufficient information to answer a question, it can only extend the current reasoning paths,
sacrificing a lot of efficiency on irrelevant explorations. By contrast, the efficiency advantages of
PoG can be attributed to its adaptive exploration and self-correction of reasoning paths based on
the semantics of the question. The adaptive breadth reduces unnecessary exploration, and effective
correction avoids the extending of wrong current paths.
4.5 Case Study
Figure 3 shows a typical case from the testing results on CWQ dataset. We compare the results of PoG,
ToG, and CoT in answering the question “Who is in control of the place where the movie ‘The Naked
and the Dead’ takes place?”. The underlying LLMs they used are all based on GPT-3.5. PoG initially
identifies a flexible number of relations related to the topic entities. Specifically, for “The Naked and
the Dead”, PoG successfully discovers that the movie takes place in Panama, while for “President of
Panama”, the LLM thinks that only the relation “government.government_office_or_title.jurisdiction”
is relevant. Upon retrieval, no information is found regarding the person in control of Panama.
This triggers reflection as PoG realizes that it lacks sufficient information. With the memory,
PoG refers to the sub-objective status and recognizes that it already knows the movie location
(Panama) for sub-objective #1 but is unaware of the person in control of Panama for sub-objective
#2. Based on the current reasoning paths, PoG makes a decision to execute self-correction and
returns to exploring the relation not previously explored for “President of Panama”. Due to the task
decomposition, during the self-correction process, it becomes easier to identi

=== PAGE 9 ===
Paths: The Naked and the Dead → film.film.country → United States of America                               film.film.featured_film_locations → Panama       President of Panama→ government.government_office_or_title.jurisdiction          government.government_office_or_title.office_holders → m.010gg02t        Juan Carlos Varela ← government.government_position_held.office_holderPaths: The Naked and the Dead → film.film.country → United States of America  film.film.featured_film_locations → PanamaPresident of Panama→ government.government_office_or_title.jurisdiction    government.governmental_jurisdiction.government_positions     government.government_position_held.office_position_or_titleQuestion: Who is in control of the place where the movie “The Naked and the Dead” takes place?CoTAnswer: [Refused to answer.] I'm sorry, but I need to clarify the question a bit further in order to provide an accurate answer. Could you please specify whether you are referring to the character or the entity in control of the place where the movie “The Naked and the Dead” takes place? Thank you for your understanding. ToGAnswer: [KGexplorationfailed,andtheLLM answered the question according to its own knowledge.] First, the movie “The Naked and the Dead” takes place during World War II. Second, the United States Army is in control of the place where the movie takes place. 
PoGAnswer: [Through reflection to self-correctpaths, the answer was found on the revised paths.]The movie “The Naked and the Dead” takes place in Panama. The President of Panama, Juan Carlos Varela, is in control of Panama based on the knowledge triplets.
→ → → → 
→ → → ······→ Sub-Objectives: 1. Identify the place where the movie “The Naked and the Dead” takes place; 2. Determine the authority or governing body in control of that place.Sub-Objective Status: 1. The movie “The Naked and the Dead” takes place in Panama; 2. The President of Panama, Juan Carlos Varela is in control of Panama.Figure 3: A typical case to compare different methods to answer the complex question. For the
convenience of display, we only provide the sub-objective status and partial reasoning paths stored in
memory. Topic entities, wrong answers, and correct answers are highlighted in blue, red, and green.
The revised path is highlighted with a yellow background.
leverages sub-objective status to self-correct the exploration path in the reflection stage and finally
provides the correct answer.
5 Related Work
LLM Reasoning. To encourage LLMs to engage in reasoning rather than simply providing answers
directly, many researchers instruct LLMs to generate the process of thinking in their outputs [ 49,
22,63]. In the early stages, Chain of Thought (CoT) [ 49] was designed to provide a few examples
of intermediate natural language reasoning steps as the prompt. After that, several variants of
CoT reasoning with different forms like Tree-of-Thought [ 54], Graph-of-Thought [ 4], Memory of
Thought [ 24], and Skeleton-of-Thought [ 30] were proposed to enhance the thinking process. However,
LLMs may make mistakes during the reasoning process. Hence, many works [ 32,21,28,29]
designed self-correction mechanisms based on feedback to rectify flawed reasoning and ensure
accuracy. Additionally, large efforts were dedicated to guiding LLMs in understanding complex
graph structures [ 39,38] and improving their graph reasoning across different graph tasks [ 11,10,9].
However, it is still an open issue to address the outdated knowledge, hallucinations, and opaque
decision-making for LLM reasoning.
KG-Augmented LLM. Despite the pre-training of LLMs on massive corpora, they still suffer from
limitations such as outdated knowledge, hallucinations, and opaque decision-making. An effective
approach to address these limitations is to leverage KGs for explicit and editable knowledge provision
to LLMs. Previous studies integrated KGs into LLM pre-training [ 61,47] or fine-tuning [ 53,27]
stage, but they merely inject structured kno

=== PAGE 10 ===
was proposed to treat the LLM as an agent to interactively explore related entities and relations on
KGs and perform reasoning based on the retrieved knowledge. Although this KG-augmented LLM
paradigm has achieved impressive performance, it still faces the challenges of adaptively exploring
the KG based on question semantics and self-correcting erroneous reasoning paths. To the best of
our knowledge, our work stands out as a pioneering effort in successfully integrating a reflection
mechanism for self-correction and adaptive KG exploration into KG-augmented LLMs, effectively
enhancing the LLM’s reasoning ability.
6 Conclusion
In this paper, we proposed a novel self-correcting adaptive planning paradigm for KG-augmented
LLM named Plan-on-Graph (PoG). To the best of our knowledge, we were the first to incorporate a
reflection mechanism for self-correction and adaptive KG exploration into KG-augmented LLMs,
effectively augmenting LLM’s reasoning ability and efficiency. PoG first decomposed the question
into several sub-objectives, and then repeated the process of exploring reasoning paths, updating
memory, and reflecting on the need to self-correct reasoning paths until arriving at the answer. To
be specific, three important mechanisms were designed to work together to guarantee the adaptive
breadth of self-correcting planning for graph reasoning, i.e., Guidance, Memory, and Reflection.
Finally, extensive experiments on three real-world KGQA datasets validated not only the effectiveness
but also the efficiency of the proposed PoG.
Acknowledgments and Disclosure of Funding
This work was supported in part by the National Key Research and Development Program of
China (Grant No. 2023YFF0725001), the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant
No. 92370204, 62306255), the Guangdong Basic and Applied Basic Research Foundation (Grant
No. 2023B1515120057, 2024A1515011839), the Guangzhou-HKUST (GZ) Joint Funding Program
(Grant No. 2023A03J0008), and the Alibaba Research Intern Program.
References
[1]Sören Auer, Christian Bizer, Georgi Kobilarov, Jens Lehmann, Richard Cyganiak, and Zachary
Ives. Dbpedia: A nucleus for a web of open data. In international semantic web conference ,
pages 722–735. Springer, 2007.
[2]Agnes Axelsson and Gabriel Skantze. Using large language models for zero-shot natural
language generation from knowledge graphs. In Proceedings of the Workshop on Multimodal,
Multilingual Natural Language Generation and Multilingual WebNLG Challenge (MM-NLG
2023) , pages 39–54, 2023.
[3]Jinheon Baek, Alham Aji, and Amir Saffari. Knowledge-augmented language model prompting
for zero-shot knowledge graph question answering. In The 61st Annual Meeting Of The
Association For Computational Linguistics , 2023.
[4]Maciej Besta, Nils Blach, Ales Kubicek, Robert Gerstenberger, Michal Podstawski, Lukas
Gianinazzi, Joanna Gajda, Tomasz Lehmann, Hubert Niewiadomski, Piotr Nyczyk, et al. Graph
of thoughts: Solving elaborate problems with large language models. In Proceedings of the
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , volume 38, pages 17682–17690, 2024.
[5]Kurt Bollacker, Colin Evans, Praveen Paritosh, Tim Sturge, and Jamie Taylor. Freebase: a
collaboratively created graph database for structuring human knowledge. In Proceedings of the
2008 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data , pages 1247–1250, 2008.
[6]Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal,
Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, et al. Language models are
few-shot learners. Advances in neural information processing systems , 33:1877–1901, 2020.
[7]Yong Cao, Xianzhi Li, Huiwen Liu, Wen Dai, Shuai Chen, Bin Wang, Min Chen, and Daniel
Hershcovich. Pay more attention to relation exploration for knowledge base question answering.
InFindings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2023 , pages 2119–2136,
2023.
[8]Liyi Chen, Zhi Li, Weidong He, Gong Cheng, Tong Xu, Nicholas

=== PAGE 11 ===
[9]Liyi Chen, Zhi Li, Yijun Wang, Tong Xu, Zhefeng Wang, and Enhong Chen. Mmea: Entity
alignment for multi-modal knowledge graph. In International Conference on Knowledge
Science, Engineering and Management , pages 134–147. Springer, 2020.
[10] Liyi Chen, Zhi Li, Tong Xu, Han Wu, Zhefeng Wang, Nicholas Jing Yuan, and Enhong Chen.
Multi-modal siamese network for entity alignment. In Proceedings of the 28th ACM SIGKDD
conference on knowledge discovery and data mining , pages 118–126, 2022.
[11] Liyi Chen, Chuan Qin, Ying Sun, Xin Song, Tong Xu, Hengshu Zhu, and Hui Xiong.
Collaboration-aware hybrid learning for knowledge development prediction. In Proceedings of
the ACM on Web Conference 2024 , pages 3976–3985, 2024.
[12] Liyi Chen, Ying Sun, Shengzhe Zhang, Yuyang Ye, Wei Wu, and Hui Xiong. Tackling uncertain
correspondences for multi-modal entity alignment. In Proceedings of the 38th Conference on
Neural Information Processing Systems , 2024.
[13] Xi Chen, Xinjiang Lu, Haoran Xin, Wenjun Peng, Haoyang Duan, Feihu Jiang, Jingbo Zhou,
and Hui Xiong. A table-to-text framework with heterogeneous multidominance attention
and self-evaluated multi-pass deliberation. In Findings of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: EMNLP 2023 , pages 607–620, 2023.
[14] Xi Chen, Chuan Qin, Zhigaoyuan Wang, Yihang Cheng, Chao Wang, Hengshu Zhu, and Hui
Xiong. Pre-dygae: Pre-training enhanced dynamic graph autoencoder for occupational skill
demand forecasting. In Proceedings of the 33th International Joint Conference on Artificial
Intelligence , 2024.
[15] Zheng Gong and Ying Sun. Graph reasoning enhanced language models for text-to-sql. In
Proceedings of the 47th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in
Information Retrieval , pages 2447–2451, 2024.
[16] Yu Gu, Xiang Deng, and Yu Su. Don’t generate, discriminate: A proposal for grounding
language models to real-world environments. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 4928–4949, 2023.
[17] Yu Gu, Sue Kase, Michelle Vanni, Brian Sadler, Percy Liang, Xifeng Yan, and Yu Su. Beyond
iid: three levels of generalization for question answering on knowledge bases. In Proceedings
of the Web Conference 2021 , pages 3477–3488, 2021.
[18] Bin Ji, Huijun Liu, Mingzhe Du, and See-Kiong Ng. Chain-of-thought improves text generation
with citations in large language models. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial
Intelligence , volume 38, pages 18345–18353, 2024.
[19] Jinhao Jiang, Kun Zhou, Zican Dong, Keming Ye, Wayne Xin Zhao, and Ji-Rong Wen. Structgpt:
A general framework for large language model to reason over structured data. In Proceedings of
the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , pages 9237–9251,
2023.
[20] Jinhao Jiang, Kun Zhou, Xin Zhao, and Ji-Rong Wen. Unikgqa: Unified retrieval and rea-
soning for solving multi-hop question answering over knowledge graph. In The International
Conference on Learning Representations , 2023.
[21] Byoungjip Kim, Youngsoo Jang, Lajanugen Logeswaran, Geon-Hyeong Kim, Yu Jin Kim,
Honglak Lee, and Moontae Lee. Prospector: Improving llm agents with self-asking and
trajectory ranking. 2023.
[22] Takeshi Kojima, Shixiang Shane Gu, Machel Reid, Yutaka Matsuo, and Yusuke Iwasawa. Large
language models are zero-shot reasoners. Advances in neural information processing systems ,
35:22199–22213, 2022.
[23] Tianle Li, Xueguang Ma, Alex Zhuang, Yu Gu, Yu Su, and Wenhu Chen. Few-shot in-context
learning on knowledge base question answering. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting
of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 6966–6980,
2023.
[24] Xiaonan Li and Xipeng Qiu. Mot: Memory-of-thought enables chatgpt to self-improve. In
Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing ,
pages 6354–6374, 2023.
11

=== PAGE 12 ===
[25] Xiaoxi Li, Yujia Zhou, and Zhicheng Dou. Unigen: A unified generative framework for retrieval
and question answering with large language models. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on
Artificial Intelligence , volume 38, pages 8688–8696, 2024.
[26] Zhenyu Li, Sunqi Fan, Yu Gu, Xiuxing Li, Zhichao Duan, Bowen Dong, Ning Liu, and Jianyong
Wang. Flexkbqa: A flexible llm-powered framework for few-shot knowledge base question
answering. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , volume 38, pages
18608–18616, 2024.
[27] Linhao Luo, Yuan-Fang Li, Reza Haf, and Shirui Pan. Reasoning on graphs: Faithful and
interpretable large language model reasoning. In The Twelfth International Conference on
Learning Representations , 2024.
[28] Aman Madaan, Niket Tandon, Prakhar Gupta, Skyler Hallinan, Luyu Gao, Sarah Wiegreffe, Uri
Alon, Nouha Dziri, Shrimai Prabhumoye, Yiming Yang, et al. Self-refine: Iterative refinement
with self-feedback. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 36, 2024.
[29] Ning Miao, Yee Whye Teh, and Tom Rainforth. Selfcheck: Using llms to zero-shot check their
own step-by-step reasoning. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representa-
tions , 2024.
[30] Xuefei Ning, Zinan Lin, Zixuan Zhou, Zifu Wang, Huazhong Yang, and Yu Wang. Skeleton-
of-thought: Large language models can do parallel decoding. In The Twelfth International
Conference on Learning Representations , 2024.
[31] V Sanh. Distilbert, a distilled version of bert: Smaller, faster, cheaper and lighter. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1910.01108 , 2019.
[32] Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Ashwin Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao.
Reflexion: Language agents with verbal reinforcement learning. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems , 36, 2024.
[33] Yiheng Shu and Zhiwei Yu. Distribution shifts are bottlenecks: Extensive evaluation for
grounding language models to knowledge bases. In Proceedings of the 18th Conference of
the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Student Research
Workshop , pages 71–88, 2024.
[34] Yiheng Shu, Zhiwei Yu, Yuhan Li, Börje Karlsson, Tingting Ma, Yuzhong Qu, and Chin-Yew
Lin. Tiara: Multi-grained retrieval for robust question answering over large knowledge base. In
Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing ,
pages 8108–8121, 2022.
[35] Jiashuo Sun, Chengjin Xu, Lumingyuan Tang, Saizhuo Wang, Chen Lin, Yeyun Gong, Lionel
Ni, Heung-Yeung Shum, and Jian Guo. Think-on-graph: Deep and responsible reasoning
of large language model on knowledge graph. In The Twelfth International Conference on
Learning Representations , 2024.
[36] Ying Sun, Hengshu Zhu, Lu Wang, Le Zhang, and Hui Xiong. Large-scale online job search
behaviors reveal labor market shifts amid covid-19. Nature Cities , 1(2):150–163, 2024.
[37] Alon Talmor and Jonathan Berant. The web as a knowledge-base for answering complex
questions. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North American Chapter of the
Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long
Papers) , pages 641–651, 2018.
[38] Yanchao Tan, Hang Lv, Xinyi Huang, Jiawei Zhang, Shiping Wang, and Carl Yang. Musegraph:
Graph-oriented instruction tuning of large language models for generic graph mining. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2403.04780 , 2024.
[39] Jiabin Tang, Yuhao Yang, Wei Wei, Lei Shi, Lixin Su, Suqi Cheng, Dawei Yin, and Chao Huang.
Graphgpt: Graph instruction tuning for large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.13023 ,
2023.
[40] Jianing Wang, Qiushi Sun, Nuo Chen, Xiang Li, and Ming Gao. Boosting language models
reasoning with chain-of-knowledge prompting. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.06427 , 2023.
[41] Keheng Wang, Feiyu Duan, Sirui Wang, Peiguang Li, Yunsen Xian, Chuantao Yin, Wenge
Rong, and Zhang Xiong. Knowledge-driven cot: Exploring faithful reasoning in llms for
knowledge-intensive question answering. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.

=== PAGE 13 ===
[42] Lei Wang, Yi Hu, Jiabang He, Xing Xu, Ning Liu, Hui Liu, and Heng Tao Shen. T-sciq: Teaching
multimodal chain-of-thought reasoning via large language model signals for science question
answering. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence , volume 38, pages
19162–19170, 2024.
[43] Shuyao Wang, Yongduo Sui, Chao Wang, and Hui Xiong. Unleashing the power of knowledge
graph for recommendation via invariant learning. In Proceedings of the ACM on Web Conference
2024 , pages 3745–3755, 2024.
[44] Shuyao Wang, Yongduo Sui, Jiancan Wu, Zhi Zheng, and Hui Xiong. Dynamic sparse learning:
A novel paradigm for efficient recommendation. In Proceedings of the 17th ACM International
Conference on Web Search and Data Mining , pages 740–749, 2024.
[45] Tianfu Wang, Qilin Fan, Chao Wang, Leilei Ding, Nicholas Jing Yuan, and Hui Xiong. Flagvne:
A flexible and generalizable rl framework for network resource allocation. In Proceedings of
the 33rd International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence , 2024.
[46] Tianfu Wang, Li Shen, Qilin Fan, Tong Xu, Tongliang Liu, and Hui Xiong. Joint admission
control and resource allocation of virtual network embedding via hierarchical deep reinforcement
learning. IEEE Transactions on Services Computing , 17(03):1001–1015, 2024.
[47] Xiaozhi Wang, Tianyu Gao, Zhaocheng Zhu, Zhengyan Zhang, Zhiyuan Liu, Juanzi Li, and
Jian Tang. Kepler: A unified model for knowledge embedding and pre-trained language
representation. Transactions of the Association for Computational Linguistics , 9:176–194,
2021.
[48] Xuezhi Wang, Jason Wei, Dale Schuurmans, Quoc V Le, Ed H Chi, Sharan Narang, Aakanksha
Chowdhery, and Denny Zhou. Self-consistency improves chain of thought reasoning in language
models. In International Conference on Learning Representations , 2023.
[49] Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Fei Xia, Ed Chi, Quoc V Le,
Denny Zhou, et al. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models.
Advances in neural information processing systems , 35:24824–24837, 2022.
[50] Shiwei Wu, Joya Chen, Tong Xu, Liyi Chen, Lingfei Wu, Yao Hu, and Enhong Chen. Linking
the characters: Video-oriented social graph generation via hierarchical-cumulative gcn. In
Proceedings of the 29th ACM International Conference on Multimedia , pages 4716–4724, 2021.
[51] Wei Wu, Chao Wang, Dazhong Shen, Chuan Qin, Liyi Chen, and Hui Xiong. Afdgcf: Adaptive
feature de-correlation graph collaborative filtering for recommendations. In Proceedings of
the 47th International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information
Retrieval , pages 1242–1252, 2024.
[52] Guanming Xiong, Junwei Bao, and Wen Zhao. Interactive-kbqa: Multi-turn interactions for
knowledge base question answering with large language models. In Proceedings of the 62nd
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers ,
pages 10561–10582, 2024.
[53] Liang Yao, Chengsheng Mao, and Yuan Luo. Kg-bert: Bert for knowledge graph completion.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.03193 , 2019.
[54] Shunyu Yao, Dian Yu, Jeffrey Zhao, Izhak Shafran, Tom Griffiths, Yuan Cao, and Karthik
Narasimhan. Tree of thoughts: Deliberate problem solving with large language models. Ad-
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 36, 2024.
[55] Xi Ye, Semih Yavuz, Kazuma Hashimoto, Yingbo Zhou, and Caiming Xiong. Rng-kbqa:
Generation augmented iterative ranking for knowledge base question answering. In Proceedings
of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long
Papers) , pages 6032–6043, 2022.
[56] Wen-tau Yih, Matthew Richardson, Christopher Meek, Ming-Wei Chang, and Jina Suh. The
value of semantic parse labeling for knowledge base question answering. In Proceedings of
the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 2: Short
Papers) , pages 201–206, 2016.
[57] Donghan Yu, Sheng Zhang, Patrick Ng, Henghui Zhu, Alexander Ha

=== PAGE 14 ===
[58] Lingxi Zhang, Jing Zhang, Yanling Wang, Shulin Cao, Xinmei Huang, Cuiping Li, Hong Chen,
and Juanzi Li. Fc-kbqa: A fine-to-coarse composition framework for knowledge base question
answering. In The 61st Annual Meeting Of The Association For Computational Linguistics ,
2023.
[59] Shengzhe Zhang, Liyi Chen, Chao Wang, Shuangli Li, and Hui Xiong. Temporal graph
contrastive learning for sequential recommendation. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on
Artificial Intelligence , volume 38, pages 9359–9367, 2024.
[60] Yuting Zhang, Ying Sun, Fuzhen Zhuang, Yongchun Zhu, Zhulin An, and Yongjun Xu. Triple
dual learning for opinion-based explainable recommendation. ACM Transactions on Information
Systems , 42(3):1–27, 2023.
[61] Zhengyan Zhang, Xu Han, Zhiyuan Liu, Xin Jiang, Maosong Sun, and Qun Liu. Ernie:
Enhanced language representation with informative entities. In Proceedings of the 57th Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , pages 1441–1451, 2019.
[62] Lili Zhao, Qi Liu, Linan Yue, Wei Chen, Liyi Chen, Ruijun Sun, and Chao Song. Comi: Correct
and mitigate shortcut learning behavior in deep neural networks. In Proceedings of the 47th
International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval ,
pages 218–228, 2024.
[63] Denny Zhou, Nathanael Schärli, Le Hou, Jason Wei, Nathan Scales, Xuezhi Wang, Dale
Schuurmans, Claire Cui, Olivier Bousquet, Quoc Le, et al. Least-to-most prompting enables
complex reasoning in large language models. The International Conference on Learning
Representations , 2023.
14

=== PAGE 15 ===
Appendix
A Prompts
Here, we provide all the prompts used in PoG. To facilitate the LLM output parsing, we require the
LLM to provide answers using specific data structures, such as lists and JSON. Besides, we require
the LLM not to output any other irrelevant information to the results. The specific in-context few-shot
is shown in code files.
A.1 Task Decomposition
Please break down the process of answering the question into as few sub-objectives
as possible based on semantic analysis.
In-Context Few-Shot
Now you need to directly output sub-objectives of the following question in list
format without other information or notes.
Q: {}
A.2 Path Exploration
A.2.1 Relation Exploration
Please provide as few highly relevant relations as possible to the question and its
sub-objectives from the following relations (separated by semicolons).
In-Context Few-Shot
Now you need to directly output relations highly related to the following question
and its sub-objectives in list format without other information or notes.
Q: {}
Sub-Objectives: {}
Topic Entity: {}
Relations: {}
A.2.2 Entity Exploration
Which entities in the following list ([] in Triples) can be used to answer the
question? Please provide the minimum possible number of entities, and strictly
adhering to the constraints mentioned in the question.
In-Context Few-Shot
Now you need to directly output the entities from [] in Triplets for the following
question in list format without other information or notes.
Q: {}
Triplets: {}
A.3 Memory Updating
Based on the provided information (which may have missing parts and require further
retrieval) and your own knowledge, output the currently known information required
to achieve the sub-objectives.
In-Context Few-Shot
Now you need to directly output the results of the following question in JSON format
without other information or notes.
Q: {}
15

