=== PAGE 1 ===
2024-10-7
Training Language Models to Self-Correct via
Reinforcement Learning
Aviral Kumar*+,1, Vincent Zhuang*+,1, Rishabh Agarwal*,1, Yi Su*,1, JD Co-Reyes1, Avi Singh1, Kate Baumli1,
Shariq Iqbal1, Colton Bishop1, Rebecca Roelofs1, Lei M Zhang1, Kay McKinney1, Disha Shrivastava1, Cosmin
Paduraru1, George Tucker1, Doina Precup1, Feryal Behbahani†,1and Aleksandra Faust†,1
1Google DeepMind,*Equal Contribution,+Randomly ordered via coin flip,†Jointly supervised.
Self-correction is a highly desirable capability of large language models (LLMs), yet it has consistently
been found to be largely ineffective in modern LLMs. Current methods for training self-correction typically
depend on either multiple models, a more advanced model, or additional forms of supervision. To address
these shortcomings, we develop a multi-turn online reinforcement learning (RL) approach, SCoRe, that
significantly improves an LLM’s self-correction ability using entirely self-generated data . To build SCoRe, we
first show that variants of supervised fine-tuning (SFT) on offline model-generated correction traces are
often insufficient for instilling self-correction behavior. In particular, we observe that training via SFT falls
prey to either a distribution mismatch between mistakes made by the data-collection policy and the model’s
own responses, or to behavior collapse, where learning implicitly prefers only a certain mode of correction
behavior that is often not effective at self-correction on test problems. SCoReaddresses these challenges
by training under the model’s own distribution of self-generated correction traces and using appropriate
regularization to steer the learning process into learning a self-correction behavior that is effective at test
time as opposed to fitting high-reward responses for a given prompt. This regularization process includes
an initial phase of multi-turn RL on a base model to generate a policy initialization that is less susceptible to
collapse, followed by using a reward bonus to amplify self-correction. With Gemini 1.0 Pro and 1.5 Flash
models, we find that SCoReachieves state-of-the-art self-correction performance, improving the base models’
self-correction by 15.6% and 9.1% respectively on MATH and HumanEval.
1. Introduction
Large language models (LLMs) are a useful tool for reasoning in scientific domains such as math and
coding (Lozhkov et al., 2024; Shao et al., 2024; Team, 2024). An aspirational property of LLMs in such
settings is their ability to implement meta-strategies oralgorithms that use test-time computation to
generate improved responses. However, modern LLMs do not implement such strategies reliably. For
instance, consider a problem that requires models to detect and revise (or “self-correct”) their own
responses in order to eventually arrive at the best possible final response. This self-correction capability
has been shown to be severely lacking in current LLMs, especially in the absence of external input (also
calledintrinsic self-correction ) (Huang et al., 2023; Kamoi et al., 2024).
To make progress towards teaching LLMs to implement meta-strategies for challenging inputs, we study
a special instance of training LLMs to perform self-correction to fix their mistakes “on-the-fly”. This
should be possible: on many queries where current LLMs fail, they possess the underlying “knowledge”
needed to arrive at the correct response but are unable to correctly elicit and draw inferences about
their own knowledge when needed (Yang et al., 2024). For example, strong LLMs can often successfully
complete a sub-part of a math proof when prompted with the remainder, but may not be able to complete
it from scratch. In a similar vein, leveraging their previous responses should, in principle, enable LLMs to
Corresponding author(s): [vincentzhuang, aviralkumar, rishabhagarwal, yisumtv]@google.comarXiv:2409.12917v2  [cs.LG]  4 Oct 2024

=== PAGE 2 ===
Training Language Models to Self-Correct via Reinforcement Learning
Base Model ST aR SFT SCoRe40455055606570Accuracy (%)-11.2%+0.4% +1.8%+4.4%Gemini 1.5 Flash on MATH
Direct Generation
Self-Correction (SC)
 (SC - Direct)
2122232425
Number of samples (K)60%62%64%66%68%70%Self-Consistency@K
Scaling Inference Compute: MATH
Parallel Samples
Sequential (Self-Correct)
Figure 1 ∣Left:SCoReachieves state-of-the-art self-correction performance on MATH; Right:SCoReinference-time scaling:
spending samples on sequential self-correction becomes more effective than only on parallel direct samples (Section 6.2).
improve their subsequent ones. Despite this, self-correction has remained elusive, highlighting the need
to go beyond existing training paradigms.
How can we imbue LLMs with self-correction abilities? Prior attempts for self-correcting LLMs either
rely on prompt-engineering (Kim et al., 2023; Madaan et al., 2023) or on fine-tuning models specifically
for self-correction. While the former approaches often fail to perform meaningful intrinsic self-correction,
fine-tuning approaches require running multiple models during inference, such as a separate refinement
model (Havrilla et al., 2024b; Welleck et al., 2023), or rely on “teacher” supervision to guide the process
of self-correction (Qu et al., 2024). With the use of separate models of teacher supervision, self-correction
does not necessarily outperform parallel, independent attempts. We develop an approach that is effective
at self-correction without these requirements. Our approach, Self-Correction via Reinforcement Learning
(SCoRe), trains only a single model that can both produce a response to a problem and alsocorrect errors
without any oracle feedback.
To develop SCoRe, we start by analyzing the shortcomings of SFT-based approaches (e.g., STaR (Zelikman
et al., 2022)) and naïve RL that optimizes final response correctness for teaching self-correction. We find
that such approaches fall prey to either: (1)distribution shift , where the trained model is able to correct
errors made by the base model that generated the data, but these gains do not transfer to self-correction
under the learned model’s own mistakes; or (2)behavior collapse , where the learning progress simply
learns to produce the best first-attempt response followed by superficial or no modifications in the
second attempt. To address these issues, SCoRetrains for self-correction directly via on-policy, multi-turn
RL. To prevent behavior collapse, SCoReemploys two-stage training: in the first stage, it produces an
initialization that is less susceptible to behavior collapse by training to correct second-attempt responses
while constraining the first-turn distribution to be close to the base model; followed by training on both
attempts to maximize reward in the second stage. Crucially, the second stage of multi-turn RL employs a
reward shaping term that rewards “progress” towards self-correction as opposed to the correctness of the
final response.
Our main contribution is SCoRe, a multi-turn RL approach for teaching LLMs how to correct their own
mistakes. To the best of our knowledge, SCoReis the first approach to attain significantly positive
intrinsic self-correction: relative to base Gemini models, our method attains an absolute 15.6%gain on
self-correction for reasoning problems from MATH (Hendrycks et al., 2021) and an absolute 9.1%gain
2

=== PAGE 3 ===
Training Language Models to Self-Correct via Reinforcement Learning
on coding problems from HumanEval (Chen et al., 2021). We additionally motivate the design of SCoRe
by extensively studying the failure modes of SFT and standard RL approaches, which broadly indicate
that reinforcement learning plays an essential role in self-trained self-correction.
2. Related Work
Prior works study self-correction for LLMs under a variety of assumptions and problem settings. The most
prominent settings include problems where external input tokens from an environment are available,
such as agentic tasks (Liu et al., 2023), code repair (Jain et al., 2024), and tool use (Chen et al., 2023).
While self-correction with external feedback is possible with strong models (Pan et al., 2023), even they
struggle in the substantially harder setting with no external input (intrinsic self-correction) (Huang et al.,
2023; Kamoi et al., 2024). Prior work that attempts to amplify intrinsic correction abilities is largely
based on prompting and fine-tuning.
Prompting for intrinsic self-correction . Recent work demonstrates that naïvely prompting LLMs for
self-correction can degrade performance (Huang et al., 2023; Qu et al., 2024; Tyen et al., 2024; Zheng
et al., 2024). These results contradict prior work (Kim et al., 2023; Madaan et al., 2023; Shinn et al.,
2023) and largely stem from mismatched assumptions about the setting (Kamoi et al., 2024). For
example, Kim et al. (2023); Shinn et al. (2023) use ground-truth answers during self-correction that
may not generally be available; Madaan et al. (2023) use weak prompts for initial responses, thereby
overestimating the total improvement possible. Therefore, there is no major work showing successful
intrinsic self-correction via prompting alone. In the context of code self-repair, Olausson et al. (2023)
show that even when strong models are prompted with some form of partial feedback, e.g., test-cases but
not the desired outcomes, they are unable to correct their mistakes.
Fine-tuning for intrinsic self-correction . Several works that go beyond prompting rely on fine-tuning
withdemonstrationsofrevisions, e.g. obtainingrevisionsdirectlyfromhumanannotators(Saundersetal.,
2022) or stronger models (Qu et al., 2024; Ye et al., 2023). Our work aims to train for self-correction
entirely without the use of larger models or humans, when the learner itself is asked to generate its own
training data. Similar to these prior works, we assume access to a reward function for evaluating model-
generated outputs (Akyürek et al., 2023; Welleck et al., 2023; Zhang et al., 2024). Perhaps the closest to
us from this set is Qu et al. (2024), which utilizes an iterative STaR-like approach self-correction. While
this work largely uses oracle teacher supervision, their preliminary results from training for self-correction
only show minor improvements over five turns, consistent with the results we see for STaR. We show
thatSCoReattains substantially better results. Other approaches train separate models for performing
correction (e.g., GLoRE (Havrilla et al., 2024b), Self-Correction (Welleck et al., 2023), Akyürek et al.
(2023); Paul et al. (2023). While such approaches can be convenient, they require system design for
serving multiple models at deployment.
Multi-turn RL for LLMs. Prior work at the intersection of LLMs and multi-turn RL builds machinery for
optimizing rewards with value-based (Farebrother et al., 2024; Shani et al., 2024; Snell et al., 2022;
Zhou et al., 2024), policy-based (Shao et al., 2024; Xiong et al., 2024), and model-based (Hong et al.,
2024) approaches. We do not focus on building machinery for RL (we use the approach of Ahmadian
et al. (2024)), but rather train for self-correction as an RL problem.
3

=== PAGE 4 ===
Training Language Models to Self-Correct via Reinforcement Learning
MATH Example 1: Arithmetic Self-Correction
Problem. If𝑛≡2(mod 7), then find the remainder when (𝑛+2)(𝑛+4)(𝑛+6)is divided by 7.
SCoReturn 1 solution (incorrect) . Since𝑛≡2(mod 7), we can write 𝑛=7𝑘+2for some integer 𝑘. Substituting, we get
(𝑛+2)(𝑛+4)(𝑛+6)=(7𝑘+4)(7𝑘+6)(7𝑘+8)≡4⋅6⋅8(mod 7)≡192(mod 7)≡1(mod 7). Final Answer: The final answer is
1. I hope it is correct.
Self-correction instruction. There might be an error in the solution above because of lack of understanding of the question. Please
correct the error, if any, and rewrite the solution.
SCoReturn 2 solution (correct) . Since𝑛≡2(mod 7), we can write 𝑛=7𝑘+2for some integer 𝑘. Substituting, we get
(𝑛+2)(𝑛+4)(𝑛+6)=(7𝑘+4)(7𝑘+6)(7𝑘+8)≡4⋅6⋅8(mod 7)≡4⋅6⋅1(mod 7)≡24(mod 7)≡3(mod 7). Final Answer:
The final answer is 3. I hope it is correct.
MATH Example 2: Reasoning Self-Correction
Problem. Let𝑓(𝑥)=⌊(−5
8)𝑥⌋be a function that is defined for all values of 𝑥in[0,∞)such that 𝑓(𝑥)is a real number. How many
distinct values exist in the range of 𝑓(𝑥)?
SCoReturn 1 solution (incorrect) . As𝑥increases, the value of (−5
8)𝑥decreases. Since the floor function rounds down to the
nearest integer, the range of 𝑓(𝑥)consists of all the integers less than or equal to ⌊(−5
8)0⌋=1. Therefore, the range of 𝑓(𝑥)is
{1,0,−1,−2,...}, and there are ∞distinct values in the range. Final Answer: The final answer is ∞. I hope it is correct.
Self-correction instruction. There might be an error in the solution above because of lack of understanding of the question. Please
correct the error, if any, and rewrite the solution.
SCoReturn 2 solution (correct) . As𝑥increases from 0 to ∞, the value of (−5
8)𝑥oscillates between positive and negative values, but
its absolute value decreases. The floor function rounds down to the nearest integer, so the range of 𝑓(𝑥)consists of the integers less
than or equal to ⌊(−5
8)0⌋=1. Since the absolute value of (−5
8)𝑥decreases as 𝑥increases, the range of 𝑓(𝑥)is finite and consists of
the integers: {1,0,−1}. Final Answer: The final answer is 3. I hope it is correct.
Figure 2 ∣Two example traces of self-correction. In the upper example, SCoReis able to correct an arithmetic mistake it
makes in turn 1. In the lower example, the model is able to correct a reasoning error.
3. Preliminaries and Problem Setup
Our goal is to develop an approach for training LLMs to improve their own predictions entirely on self-
generated data. As discussed so far, we situate ourselves in the intrinsic self-correction setting (Huang
et al., 2023), where models attempt to correct their initial responses without any external feedback.
Concretely, given a dataset 𝒟={(𝒙𝑖,𝒚∗
𝑖)}𝑁
𝑖=1of problems 𝒙𝑖and responses 𝒚∗
𝑖, we will train an LLM policy
𝜋𝜃(⋅∣[𝒙,ˆ𝒚1∶𝑙,𝑝1∶𝑙])that, given the problem 𝒙, previous 𝑙model attempts ˆ𝒚1∶𝑙at the problem, and auxiliary
instructions 𝑝1∶𝑙(e.g., instruction to find a mistake and improve the response), solves the problem 𝒙as
correctly as possible. This formalism is akin to the multi-turn MDP in Qu et al. (2024). We also assume
access to an oracle reward ̂𝑟(𝒚,𝒚∗), such as an answer checker (Uesato et al., 2022), that evaluates the
correctness of response 𝒚by comparing it with the oracle response 𝒚∗. Critically, we do notassume access
to this oracle at test-time; instead, the model must deduce whether there was a mistake and correct
it if necessary, as is often the case in e.g. mathematical reasoning problems. Unlike the setup of Qu
et al. (2024), we also do not run majority voting for most of our main results. Two example traces of
self-correction are given in Figure 2, and our problem setting is depicted pictorially in Figure 3.
4

=== PAGE 5 ===
Training Language Models to Self-Correct via Reinforcement Learning
Foundation modelFoundation model trained with ScoRe 
prompt (x)response (y)first attempt (y1)Improved 
response (y2)
prompt (x)Optional external 
input (p) Standard trainingTraining via SCoRe (Ours) Loss
Loss
Figure 3 ∣The problem setting of self-correction. SCoRetrains a model to not just produce the best possible response, but
instead aims to train the model to produce the best final response in the final attempt. In the second turn, extra input in the
form of an instruction asking the model to correct itself or model-generated may be provided.
We aim to find an LLM policy 𝜋(□∣◦)mapping input tokens ◦to output tokens □that maximizes the
correctness reward obtained from the verifier at the end of 𝑙+1turns (𝑙=1). Formally:
max
𝜋𝜃ℰ𝒙,𝒚∗∼𝒟,ˆ𝒚𝑙+1∼𝜋𝜃(⋅∣[𝒙,ˆ𝒚1∶𝑙,𝑝1∶𝑙])[𝑙+1
∑
𝑖=1̂𝑟(ˆ𝒚𝑖,𝒚∗)]. (1)
Crucially, note that unlike standard SFT or prevalent RL fine-tuning workflows, which train the policy
𝜋to directly produce 𝒚∗(or any other 𝒚wiĥ𝑟(𝒚,𝒚∗)=1), Equation 1 trains 𝜋over multiple attempts
simultaneously , where intermediate turns are supervised indirectly to maximize the sum.
Base RL fine-tuning approach we use. We use a REINFORCE policy gradient training approach with
a KL-divergence penalty against a fixed model (Ahmadian et al., 2024), which is widely used in RL
fine-tuning of LLMs, primarily in the setting of single-turn RLHF. Formally, these methods train the policy
𝜋𝜃(⋅∣𝒙)to optimize the following, where 𝜋refis a reference policy.
max
𝜃E𝒙𝑡,𝒚𝑡∼𝜋𝜃(⋅∣𝒙𝑡)[̂𝑟(𝒚𝑡,𝒚∗)−𝛽1𝐷𝐾𝐿(𝜋𝜃(⋅∣𝒙𝑡)∣∣𝜋ref(⋅∣𝒙𝑡))], (2)
Metrics. To measure self-correction performance (we consider 𝑙=2in this paper), we report and analyze
the following metrics: (1) Accuracy@t1 : the model’s accuracy at the first attempt; (2) Accuracy@t2 :
the model’s accuracy at the second attempt, (3)Δ(t1, t2): the net improvement in model accuracy
between the first and second attempts, which measures the efficacy of self-correction, (4)Δi→c(t1, t2):
the fraction of problems that are incorrect in the first attempt but become correct at the second attempt,
which measures how many newproblems can self-correction solve; and (5)Δc→i(t1, t2): the fraction of
problems that are correct in the first attempt but become incorrect at the second attempt, which measures
how well the model understands what makes a response correct.
4. SFT on Self-Generated Data is Insufficient for Self-Correction
A natural approach for training self-correction is to utilize some form of supervised fine-tuning on data
collected from a base model. Variants of this approach have been shown to scale well on single-turn
reasoning problems (Singh et al., 2023; Zelikman et al., 2022). In this section, we assess the empirical
5

=== PAGE 6 ===
Training Language Models to Self-Correct via Reinforcement Learning
Table 1∣Self-correction performance after training on 𝒟STaRand𝒟SFT.We find that the gap between the second and first
attempts ( Δ(t1,t2)) is either negative or small. Both approaches erroneously modify a correct response to be incorrect, i.e.,
reflected in a high Δc→i(𝑡1,𝑡2)and a low Δi→c(𝑡1,𝑡2).
Method Accuracy@t1 Accuracy@t2 Δ(t1, t2) Δi→c(t1, t2) Δc→i(t1, t2)
Base model 52.6% 41.4% -11.2% 4.6% 15.8%
STaR 𝒟StaR 55.4% 41.2% -14.2% 5.4% 19.6%
STaR 𝒟+
StaR 53.6% 54.0% 0.4% 2.6% 2.2%
Pair-SFT 𝒟SFT 52.4% 54.2% 1.8% 5.4% 3.6%
Pair-SFT 𝒟+
SFT 55.0% 55.0% 0% 0% 0%
efficacy of two such approaches for self-correction: STaR (Zelikman et al., 2022), and a version of Welleck
et al. (2023) that trains only one model.
We ultimately find that although these methods improve self-correction over the base model, they fail
to achieve substantially positive self-correction ( Δ(t1,t2)). By probing these models, we observe two
main failure modes: (1)a collapse to non-correcting behavior, where the models learn to produce a good
response on the first attempt and only make minor (or no) modifications in the second attempt, and (2)
an inability of offline methods to be robust to distribution shift in the first-attempt responses.
Analysis setup: methods and dataset construction. We prompt Gemini 1.5 Flash to obtain a large
number of two-turn self-correction traces on MATH (Hendrycks et al., 2021). The STaRapproach filters
these trajectories to retain only those that successfully revise incorrect responses and runs SFT on the
resulting dataset. Another approach is to use base model data from above to construct “synthetic” repair
traces by pairing incorrect responses with correct ones (Welleck et al., 2023). We study a variant of this
method that we call Pair-SFT , which does not train a separate corrector model and does not augment
this initial dataset with multi-turn traces. Formally, we denote the datasets for STaR and Pair-SFT as
𝒟STaRand𝒟SFTrespectively. We run 3 iterations for STaR following the protocol in Singh et al. (2024),
and only one iteration for Pair-SFT, following the protocol in Welleck et al. (2023) and other standard
workflows on SFT.
Main empirical findings. We present the self-correction results before and after fine-tuning on 𝒟STaRand
𝒟SFTin Table 1. We find that although Δ(t1, t2) is substantially higher for Pair-SFT relative to the base
model, there is only little benefit to self-correction (1.8% gain). This gain is of a similar order to findings
from Qu et al. (2024). By studying Δi→candΔc→i, we find that SFT mainly reduces the number of correct
problems that are mistakenly changed to incorrect in the second attempt, but does not significantly
increase the fraction of incorrect first attempts that are corrected. This result is consistent with prior
works on intrinsic self-correction that have found negligible or negative Δ(t1, t2) values.
We also find that unlike Pair-SFT, training on 𝒟STaRdoes not reduce Δc→i, indicating that the STaR policy
does not have a clear understanding of when to make modifications and when not to. Observing this, we
also trained on an extended version of 𝒟+
STaR(and𝒟+
SFT), which additionally contains tuples with both
correct responses. We would expect the addition of such “correct-to-correct” data to prevent the model
from erroneously revising a correct response. As shown in Table 1, the inclusion of this data helps STaR
substantially but only results in 0.4% change in Δ(t1, t2). On the other hand, for SFT, inclusion of this
6

=== PAGE 7 ===
Training Language Models to Self-Correct via Reinforcement Learning
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Edit distance ratio0246DensityBase model
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Edit distance ratio0246DensitySTaR +
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Edit distance ratio0246DensitySFT 
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Edit distance ratio0246DensitySCoRe
(a)Histograms of edit distance ratios on MATH 500.
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Edit distance ratio0246DensityTrain (+
STaR)
Eval(b)STaRedit distance ratios.
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Edit distance ratio024DensityTrain (SFT)
Eval
(c)Pair-SFT edit distance ratios.
Figure 4 ∣Edit distance between first-attempt and second-attempt responses from fine-tuned models, our approach
(SCoRe) and the base model. While training on self-generated error correction traces learns to not make major edits primarily,
SFT learns to make some edits but is still quite conservative.
data overly biases the model against changing its answer.
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Epoch fraction0.020.040.060.080.10Validation ic(t1, t2)}
0.10.20.30.4
Train ic(t1, t2)}
Fixed validation
Self-generated validation
Fixed train
Figure 5 ∣Self-correction performance on different sets of first-
attempt responses: (a) “fixed”: first response is sampled from the initial
model, (b) “self-generated”: first response is generated by the learner
itself. Throughout training, the correction rate on fixed responses in-
creases for both train and validation problems, but degrades substantially
on self-generated responses. This indicates that training on a fixed offline
dataset of correction traces suffers from distribution shift.Divingdeeper: analyzingself-correction
behavior. To further understand how
these STaR and SFT models edit their re-
sponses, we measured their edit distance
ratios, defined as the edit distance be-
tween the responses normalized by the to-
tal length of both the responses. As shown
in Figure 4a, while the base model some-
times makes substantially large edits to
the original response, models fine-tuned
on𝒟STaRand𝒟SFTare overly conservative
and often make no edits at all. This is akin
to a form of behavior collapse : training
to maximize likelihoods on off-policy re-
vision traces does not teach the desired
correction “behavior”, even though it im-
proves first-attempt accuracy. Similar ob-
servations of LLMs ignoring nuanced be-
haviors (e.g., producing a mistake in a response and then correcting it in subsequent steps) have been
observed in Ye et al. (2024).
We also compared the distributions of edit distance ratios on training and test-time self-correction traces
in Figures 4b/4c. While STaR produces qualitatively similar edit distance ratios on both the train and
validation sets, we still observe some discrepancies between the train and validation edit distance ratios
for SFT, implying that Pair-SFT is not very effective at generalizing to new problems from the same
7

=== PAGE 8 ===
Training Language Models to Self-Correct via Reinforcement Learning
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Training fraction0.500.550.60Train Accuracy(t1,t2)
(t1,t2)
Stage I
Multi-turn baselineTurn 1
Turn 2
(a)Training accuracy curves. When training with standard multi-
turn RL, the responses at both the attempts become tightly coupled
together, leading to poor coverage for subsequent iterations and
worse learning progress. Stage I in SCoReis explicitly designed
to alleviate this and achieves much higher Δ(t1,t2), leading to
increased exploration and better final performance.
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Training fraction (over stage I)0.20.30.4Different answer freq.Multi-turn RL baseline
Stage I
Stage II(b)Frequency in which the learner proposes a different
answer in the second turn. Without explicitly modify-
ing the policy initialization as in SCoRe, the policy quickly
learns to often not change its answer, leading to poor ex-
ploration. Stage I in SCoReprevents this issue, and learns
non-collapsed behavior in Stage II.
Figure 6 ∣Behavior collapse in standard multi-turn RL for training self-correction. These results indicate that some explicit
approach to avoid collapse is necessary, i.e. Stage I in SCoRe.
distribution. We visualized this by plotting the self-correction performance of the SFT model on a fixed
set of first attempts and self-generated first attempts in Figure 5. We observe vastly different behaviors
between static and self-generated first-attempt distributions: while the model is able to optimize training
correctionaccuracyandalsoslightlyimprovesonfirstattemptsappearinginthevalidationset(distributed
i.i.d.to the training distribution), its self-correction accuracy degrades. Hence, distribution shift is a
significant challenge for offline methods such as Pair-SFT.
Takeaways: Insufficiency of SFT
SFT-based methods suffer from two distinct failures when learning self-correction: (1)distribution
shift, and (2)behavior collapse. Training on on-policy data can fix (1), but not (2).
5.SCoRe: Self-Correction via Multi-Turn Reinforcement Learning
The above results highlight that an effective approach for training LLMs to self-correct entirely via
self-generated data must address both distribution shift and behavior collapse. Utilizing on-policy RL is a
natural way to address distribution shift, and our method will do so by extending Equation 2 to multiple
turns under the hierarchical framework of Zhou et al. (2024). However, is behavior collapse an issue
for standard multi-turn RL? And if not, how can we address it?
To answer these questions, we run standard multi-turn RL training to optimize Equation 1 only on (𝑥2,𝑦2)
pairs. Since this objective maximizes the second-attempt performance of the model without training
the first attempt, we expect the self-correction Δ(t1,t2) of the model to increase. However, as shown in
Figure 6, while the performance of each attempt improves with training, their difference Δ(t1, t2) does
not. In other words, standard multi-turn RL converges to a state that is overly biased against changing its
response, resulting in no self-correction ability and a similar behavior collapse as what we saw with STaR.
Why does RL still suffer from collapse? There are at least two equally good solutions when optimizing a
policy with RL on the training data: (i)learning to improve from the first to the second attempt, or (ii)
8

=== PAGE 9 ===
Training Language Models to Self-Correct via Reinforcement Learning
Foundation model
prompt (x)response (y)Stage I: Train an initialization for self-correction Stage II: Run Multi-turn RL with reward shaping 
Foundation model trained with SCoRe first attempt (y1)second attempt (y2)
prompt (x)Maximize 
rewardConstrain to 
base modelMaximize shaped 
rewardMaximize reward 
Foundation model trained with SCoRe first attempt (y1)second attempt (y2)
prompt (x)
Figure 7 ∣An overview of our approach ( SCoRe).SCoRetrains a model in two stages: Stage I: instead of running SFT
(which produces pathological amplification of biases) to initialize RL training, we train a good initialization that can produce
high-reward responses in the second-attempt while mimicking the base model’s initial response at the first attempt. Stage
II:jointly optimizing both attempts, where the latter uses a shaped reward to incentivize the discovery of the self-correction
strategy instead of the simple strategy of producing the best first response followed by making any minor edits to it in the
second attempt.
learning to produce the best first-attempt response, followed by no correction in the second attempt. Of
course only the former strategy generalizes to new problems, but an overparameterized LLM may not
necessarily learn strategy (i)instead of (ii), since both of these strategies can be equally optimal on the
training set . Abstractly, learning the “meta strategy” of self-correction during training is difficult unless
the “direct” strategy that optimizes reward appears less viable on the training data. Conceptually, this
is similar to the memorization challenge in meta-learning (Yin et al., 2019), which suggests that when
provided with mutually exclusive tasks, meta-learning is likely to recover the supervised learning solution
(without using context from the few shots) that directly predicts the output. Here, this is analogous to
not self-correcting past attempts, directly producing an answer.
Method overview. Although a good self-correcting policy should maximize both accuracy@t1 and
accuracy@t2, we saw that standard RL leads to a collapse to non-correcting behavior. Hence, our key
insight in SCoReis that we must more explicitly encourage self-correction behavior, which we accomplish
via a two-stage approach. The first stage ( Stage I) serves the role of initialization where we train
the model to decouple its behavior across the two attempts by attempting to optimize second-attempt
accuracy while explicitly constraining the distribution of first attempts to the base model. From here,
Stage II then jointly optimizes the reward of both attempts. To ensure that Stage II does not collapse to
the “direct” solution, we bias the reward to reinforce self-correction progress.
5.1. Stage I: Training an Initialization that Decouples Attempts
The goal of Stage I of SCoReis to obtain an initialization by improving the base model’s coverage over
second attempts given the first attempt, so that subsequent training for self-correction is less prone to
behavior collapse. While this would typically be done via SFT, our results in Section 4 show that SFT
itself suffers from collapse. Therefore, we use RL in this stage to decouple the two attempts. To do so,
we explicitly fine-tune the base model to produce high-reward responses at the second attempt, while
forcing the model to not change its first attempt by constraining it to be close to the base model using
a KL-divergence. While this may appear sub-optimal – a first attempt with fewer mistakes should lead
to a better second attempt – but as we will show, this stage is critical in reducing the base model’s bias
towards simply coupling the first and second-attempt distributions, thus avoiding behavior collapse when
9

=== PAGE 10 ===
Training Language Models to Self-Correct via Reinforcement Learning
actual multi-turn RL is run. Formally, the objective is:
max
𝜃E𝒙1,𝒚1∼𝜋𝜃(⋅∣𝒙),𝒚2∼𝜋𝜃(⋅∣[𝒙1,𝑝1])[̂𝑟(𝒚2,𝒚∗)−𝛽2𝐷𝐾𝐿(𝜋𝜃(⋅∣∣𝒙1)∣∣𝜋ref(⋅∣𝒙1))], (3)
where𝛽2is a hyperparameter designed to enforce a strict KL penalty only on the first attempt to
avoid shifting of the first-turn responses (denoted by the term in blue). Note that we still utilize the
default KL-divergence penalty from Equation 2, but with a relatively small weight and is omitted from
Equation 3 for clarity. Indeed, we show that compared to standard multi-turn RL, Stage I is more effective
at decoupling the two responses (Figure 6b) and leads to better Stage II performance.
5.2. Stage II: Multi-Turn RL with Reward Shaping
The second stage of SCoReis initialized from Stage I and now jointly optimizes the performance of both
attempts. Concretely, Stage II trains the policy 𝜋𝜃(⋅∣⋅)using the following objective:
max
𝜃E𝒙1,𝒚1∼𝜋𝜃(⋅∣𝒙),𝒚2∼𝜋𝜃(⋅∣[𝒙1,𝑝1])[2
∑
𝑖=1̂𝑟(𝒚𝑖,𝒚∗)−𝛽1𝐷𝐾𝐿(𝜋𝜃(⋅∣𝒙𝑖)∣∣𝜋ref(⋅∣𝒙𝑖))], (4)
where 𝒙𝑖,𝑖∈{1,2}corresponds to the set of input tokens passed as context to the model.
Reward shaping to prevent behavior collapse. In principle, optimizing Equation 4 can also produce a
solution that couples responses. This is because we still aim to maximize ground-truth rewards at both
attempts. To prevent the learning process from collapsing to a non self-correcting solution in Stage II,
we need to bias the learning problem towards self-correction. We implement this via reward shaping :
by rewarding transitions that make “progress” towards learning the desired self-correction behavior.
Concretely, given an two-turn rollout sampled from the policy 𝜏={𝒙1,ˆ𝒚1,̂𝑟(𝒚1,𝒚∗),𝒙2,ˆ𝒚2,̂𝑟(𝒚2,𝒚∗)},
we modify the reward ̂𝑟(𝒚2,𝒚∗)in Equation 4, at the second attempt with a bonus ̂𝑏(𝒚2∣𝒚1,𝒚∗)∶=
𝛼⋅(̂𝑟(𝒚2,𝒚∗)−̂𝑟(𝒚1,𝒚∗)), where𝛼is a positive constant multiplier, ideally larger than 1.0. Adding this
bonus to the second attempt measures a notion of progress by onlyemphasizing transitions that flip the
correctness of the response and assigns a heavy negative penalty to transitions that change a correct
response to incorrect in the second attempt. Thus, the addition of this bonus should regularize the
training process from collapsing on to the “direct” solution that also appears optimal on the training set
but does not learn self-correction.
5.3. Putting it Together and Implementation Details
Our approach is illustrated pictorially in Figure 7. We detail all hyperparameters used in Appendix B. In
practice, one can also use an adaptive 𝛽2that attempts to balance the magnitudes of the first-attempt KL
regularization and the second-attempt policy objective. In some of our experiments, we also choose to
amplify the coverage of states used for on-policy RL by incorporating first-attempt solutions obtained
by repeatedly sampling the base model as offlineprompts in RL. We find that incorporating this data,
especially in Stage II – where the first-turn policy may have drifted further from that of the base model –
can have substantial benefits especially when attempting to learn from limited data.
Takeaways and Implications
The core insight behind SCoReis that we must make it more attractive to learn a more nuanced
algorithmic strategy (i.e., self-correction) instead of collapsing to a degenerate behavior mode. To
avoid distribution shift, this must be done on self-generated online data.
10

=== PAGE 11 ===
Training Language Models to Self-Correct via Reinforcement Learning
Table 2∣Performance of SCoReon MATH. SCoRenot only attains a higher accuracy at both attempts, but also provides the
most positive self-correction performance Δ(t1, t2).
Approach Acc.@t1 Acc.@t2 Δ(t1, t2) Δi→c(t1, t2) Δc→i(t1, t2)
Base model 52.6% 41.4% -11.2% 4.6% 15.8%
Self-Refine (Madaan et al., 2023) 52.8% 51.8% -1.0% 3.2% 4.2%
STaR w/ 𝒟+
StaR(Zelikman et al., 2022) 53.6% 54.0% 0.4% 2.6% 2.2%
Pair-SFT w/ 𝒟SFT(Welleck et al., 2023) 52.4% 54.2% 1.8% 5.4% 3.6%
SCoRe(Ours) 60.0% 64.4% 4.4% 5.8% 1.4%
6. Experimental Evaluation
The goal of our experiments is to demonstrate the efficacy and justify the design of SCoRein training
LLMs how to self-correct by only training on their own data. To this end, we perform a comparative
evaluation of SCoReagainst prior methods that also use self-generated data to train for self-correction,
and run several ablation studies on two representative reasoning tasks where error correction is crucial.
Tasks.We mainly focus on reasoning problems in math and coding: (a)math problem solving on
MATH (Hendrycks et al., 2021), and (b)code generation on MBPP (Austin et al., 2021) and Hu-
manEval (Chen et al., 2021). We use the following train-test splits in our experiments: (1) MATH :
following Lightman et al. (2023), we augment the MATH training set with 4500 problems from the test
set, and report results on the remaining 500 problems (MATH500); and (2) Code generation : we train
on MBPP and report results on HumanEval, which does not expose test cases to the model. For all tasks,
we use binary rewards during training, indicating whether the model’s answer matches the ground truth
one (for MATH) or passes all test cases (for coding).
Evaluation protocol and metrics. We report the self-correction accuracy on a number of tasks with two
sequential attempts at the problem, i.e., one round of self-correction. For code generation, following
the evaluation protocol of Ni et al. (2024), we also report results on MBPP-R, an offline repair task that
requires correcting incorrect first-attempt programs generated from PaLM 2.
Models. For all of our experiments on coding problems, we fine-tune Gemini 1.0 Pro and for MATH, we
fine-tune Gemini 1.5 Flash. For all evaluations, we use greedy decoding (i.e. temperature 0), except for
inference-compute scaling in Section 6.2 where we set temperature to be 0.7. For all training methods, we
attempted to use a fixed budget of model samples and gradient updates, and do not vary hyperparameters
such as learning rate and batch size between runs. For all RL runs, we selected checkpoints with the
highest training reward, although a small held-out validation set of problems can also be used.
Evaluation prompts. We use zero-shot CoT prompting for evaluation on MATH, zero-shot prompting for
evaluation on HumanEval, and the canonical three-shot prompt for first-attempt training samples on
MBPP (Austin et al., 2021). At the second attempt, we utilize an instruction that does not reveal the
correctness of the previous answer, but asks the model to attempt to deduce whether a mistake exists in
its first attempt response, and if so, potentially rewrite its response. Our full prompts and self-correction
instructions can be found in Appendix C.
Baselines & comparisons. We compare SCoReto relevant prior approaches based on prompting or
those that fine-tune only a single model for both solving the task and for revising responses, and only
use self-generated data. Specifically, we compare to Self-Refine (Madaan et al., 2023), a representative
11

=== PAGE 12 ===
Training Language Models to Self-Correct via Reinforcement Learning
Table 3∣Performance of SCoReon HumanEval. SCoReattains the highest self-correction performance ( Accuracy@t2 ,Δ(t1,
t2)), and also outperforms other methods at offline correction ( MBPP-R ).
Method MBPP-R Acc.@t1 Acc.@t2 Δ(t1, t2) Δi→c(t1, t2) Δc→i(t1, t2)
Base model 47.3% 53.7% 56.7% 3.0% 7.9% 4.9%
Self-Refine 30.7% 53.7% 52.5% -1.2% 9.8% 11.0%
Pair-SFT 59.8% 56.1% 54.3% -1.8% 4.3% 6.1%
SCoRe(Ours) 60.6% 52.4% 64.6% 12.2% 15.2% 3.0%
prompting-based approach to elicit self-correction behaviors from a model, akin to Reflexion (Shinn et al.,
2023). Among the fine-tuning based approaches, we compare to Pair-SFT based on the approach from
Welleck et al. (2023), and multi-turn STaR(Singh et al., 2023; Zelikman et al., 2022) that fine-tune the
model by maximizing log-likelihood respectively on synthetically-paired repair traces (Pair-SFT) and
successful repair traces (STaR).
6.1. Benchmark Results
MATH.Our results are shown in Table 2, as well as in Figure 1. SCoReexhibits substantially stronger
performance on both direct and self-correction accuracies relative to baselines. Notably, the intrinsic
self-correction gain Δ(t1, t2) of 4.4% is the first significantly positive delta, despite having fewer incorrect
problems to correct by virtue of its higher Accuracy@t1. Relative to the base model Gemini 1.5 Flash,
SCoReimproves Δ(t1, t2) by 15.6%, and Accuracy@t2 by 23.0%, and over the next best prior approach,
Pair-SFT, by 10.2% and 2.6% respectively. By observing the frequency of problems that change from
incorrect in the first attempt to correct in the second attempt and vice versa, we see that SCoReboth
improves the rate at which it fixes incorrect answers (14.5%, compared to 9.5% for base) and reduces
the proportion of correct answers it changes (15.8% to 1.4%).
Code generation. Our results for the code generation task are shown in Table 3. Generally, we find that
SCoReachieves both improved self-correction and offline repair performance. For MBPP-R (Ni et al.,
2024), we find that SCoReimproves the base model from 47.3% to 60.6%, which is comparable to the
gap between GPT-3.5 (43%) and GPT-4 (63.2%). Despite only training on MBPP, we find that SCoReis
especially effective at generalizing to HumanEval, achieving a 12.2%intrinsic self-correction delta, or 9%
higher than the base model. By contrast, Pair-SFT works nearly as well on the static repair task MBPP-R,
but actually degrades the base model when evaluated in the self-correction setting, thus underscoring
the importances of on-policy sampling for self-correction.
6.2. Inference-Compute Scaling with Self-Correction
Next, we investigate if SCoRecan be used in conjunction with inference-time compute scaling strategies.
To do so, we evaluate self-consistency decoding (Wang et al., 2022), where we sample a diverse set of
solutions, andthenselectthemostconsistentansweramongthesesolutions. Typically, thedefaultstrategy
is to sample all solutions in parallel to perform majority voting. However, we show in Figure 1 (right) that
instead of sampling 2𝐾solutions in parallel, it is morecompute-efficient to sample 𝐾solutions in parallel,
then perform one round of self-correction on each solution. With 32 solution budget per problem, parallel
sampling shows a 7.4% accuracy gain, while combining it with sequential sampling using self-correction
yields a 10.5% improvement.
12

=== PAGE 13 ===
Training Language Models to Self-Correct via Reinforcement Learning
Table 4 ∣Ablation studies to understand the impact of various components in SCoRe.Observe that while single-turn
training is effective at optimizing the first-attempt accuracy of the model, it leads to degradation in the second attempt. The
performance improvements without Stage I or without reward shaping in SCoReare small when measured by the difference in
accuracy over the two attempts. Utilizing STaR generally leads to worse performance even when it is run from an effective
Stage I checkpoint.
Method Accuracy@t1 Accuracy@t2 Δ(t1, t2)
SCoRe(Ours) 60.0% 64.4% 4.4%
w/o multi-turn training 61.8% 59.4% -2.4%
w/o Stage I 59.2% 61.4% 2.2%
w/o reward shaping 60.0% 62.6% 2.6%
w/ STaR instead of REINFORCE Stage II 56.2% 58.4% 2.2%
6.3. Ablation Studies: Understanding the Impact of SCoReComponents
Finally, we also present a number of ablation studies to understand the importance of various compo-
nents in SCoRe. We perform these ablations on the MATH dataset. Concretely, we aim to answer the
following questions: (1) the importance of multi-turn training: Can RL trained to maximize single-turn
performance achieve better accuracy@t1 or accuracy@t2?; (2) the importance of multi-stage training:
How essential is Stage I to SCoRe? In other words, why not run Stage II directly?; (3) the impact of
reward shaping. How would removing the reward shaping terms affect performance of SCoRein Stage
II, assuming Stage I was done identically?; (4) the importance of on-policy RL: What if we replaced
REINFORCE in Stage II with STaR?.
The results of all of these ablation experiments are shown in Table 4. As expected, single-turn training
improves turn 1 performance, but has negative Δ(t1, t2). As shown in Figure 6, Stage I is critical to
SCoRe; without it, the model achieves 2% lower Δ(t1, t2) and 3% lower accuracy@t2. Similarly, we find
that removing reward shaping also hurts performance, indicating that the RL objectives in both stages
play a significant role in teaching the self-correction behavior. We also find that replacing REINFORCE
with STaR in Stage II results in significantly lower absolute performance with no visible improvements in
self-improvement performance, which contrasts with the findings in Havrilla et al. (2024a) that STaR and
on-policy RL have similar convergence rates for single-turn RL. This suggests that leveraging on-policy
samples is especially critical in the self-correction setting, which presents a multi-turn problem that
admits potentially spurious solutions.
7. Discussion, Limitations, and Conclusion
In this work, we investigated how to imbue LLMs with self-correction behavior that enables them to
correct their own responses on the fly. To accomplish this, we proposed SCoRe, a multi-turn RL approach,
and demonstrated through extensive evaluations that it is one of the first methods to attain significantly
positiveintrinsicself-correctionperformance. Todoso, werigorouslyanalyzedthebehaviorofvariousSFT
approachesandidentifiedfailuremodesinwhichthemodellearnsanon-correctingstrategy(e.g. learning
to make no edits; behavior collapse) or falls prey to distribution shift. SCoRetrains a self-correcting
strategy by utilizing a two-stage design and reward shaping, both of which help preventing behavior
collapse into not learning effective self-corrective behavior. SCoRehas limitations that also provide
avenues for future work. We did not train SCoRefor more than one round of iterative self-correction due
13

=== PAGE 14 ===
Training Language Models to Self-Correct via Reinforcement Learning
to infrastructural reasons, which means that subsequent rounds may not be as effective as the first. Future
work should train with more than two attempts via RL, which is already a common and effective practice
to obtain effective self-correction behavior over more than two rounds with SFT (Qu et al., 2024; Snell
et al., 2024). Unifying Stages I and II would also be interesting, since it would alleviate the limitation
of running multiple runs. Finally, our results suggest that learning meta-strategies (e.g., self-correction)
might require going beyond standard LLM fine-tuning (Section 4), and incorporate regularization (e.g.,
progress reward).
Acknowledgements
The authors would like to thank Satinder Baveja, Kalesha Bullard, Gheorghe Comanici, Claire Cui,
Valentin Dalibard, Angelos Filos, Yang Gao, Zoubin Ghahramani, Izzeddin Gur, Raia Hadsell, Clara Huiyi
Hu, Melvin Johnson, Mina Khan, Balaji Lakshminarayanan, Yiran Mao, Hussain Masoom, Junhyuk Oh,
Jordi Orbay, David Silver, and Yury Sulsky for helpful discussions, feedback, and sponsorship. We thank
Amrith Setlur, Yuxiao Qu, Charlie Snell, Tianhe Yu, and Xinyang (Young) Geng for helpful discussions
and feedback on an earlier version of the paper.
Author Contributions
AK and VZ led the paper, with substantial technical contributions from RA and YS. VZ led the experimen-
tation in the final paper with AK, with support from RA and YS. AK and RA conceived the initial idea
with advice and discussions from DS, FB, AF, JDC, AS, and GT. JDC, YS, AS, RA, and AK iterated on the
methodology. The development of the final method was done by AK and VZ, with inputs from RA and
FB. VZ led the infrastructure development, while RA, YS, CP, SI, KB, DS, and LMZ contributed to the
infrastructure. AK, RA, FB, AF, DP, GT advised on the overall direction. AK and VZ wrote the manuscript,
with input from all co-authors. KM provided program management. FB, and AF co-supervised the project.
References
A. Ahmadian, C. Cremer, M. Gallé, M. Fadaee, J. Kreutzer, A. Üstün, and S. Hooker. Back to basics:
Revisiting reinforce style optimization for learning from human feedback in llms. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.14740 , 2024.
A. F. Akyürek, E. Akyürek, A. Madaan, A. Kalyan, P. Clark, D. Wijaya, and N. Tandon. Rl4f: Generating
natural language feedback with reinforcement learning for repairing model outputs. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.08844 , 2023.
J. Austin, A. Odena, M. Nye, M. Bosma, H. Michalewski, D. Dohan, E. Jiang, C. Cai, M. Terry, Q. Le, et al.
Program synthesis with large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.07732 , 2021.
M. Chen, J. Tworek, H. Jun, Q. Yuan, H. P. D. O. Pinto, J. Kaplan, H. Edwards, Y. Burda, N. Joseph,
G.Brockman, etal. Evaluatinglargelanguagemodelstrainedoncode. arXivpreprintarXiv:2107.03374 ,
2021.
X. Chen, M. Lin, N. Schärli, and D. Zhou. Teaching large language models to self-debug. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2304.05128 , 2023.
14

=== PAGE 15 ===
Training Language Models to Self-Correct via Reinforcement Learning
J. Farebrother, J. Orbay, Q. Vuong, A. A. Taïga, Y. Chebotar, T. Xiao, A. Irpan, S. Levine, P. S. Castro,
A. Faust, et al. Stop regressing: Training value functions via classification for scalable deep rl. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2403.03950 , 2024.
A.Havrilla,Y.Du,S.C.Raparthy,C.Nalmpantis,J.Dwivedi-Yu,M.Zhuravinskyi,E.Hambro,S.Sukhbaatar,
and R. Raileanu. Teaching large language models to reason with reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2403.04642 , 2024a.
A. Havrilla, S. Raparthy, C. Nalmpantis, J. Dwivedi-Yu, M. Zhuravinskyi, E. Hambro, and R. Railneau.
Glore: When, where, and how to improve llm reasoning via global and local refinements. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.10963 , 2024b.
D. Hendrycks, C. Burns, S. Kadavath, A. Arora, S. Basart, E. Tang, D. Song, and J. Steinhardt. Measuring
mathematical problem solving with the math dataset. NeurIPS , 2021.
J. Hong, N. Lee, and J. Thorne. Reference-free monolithic preference optimization with odds ratio. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2403.07691 , 2024.
J. Huang, X. Chen, S. Mishra, H. S. Zheng, A. W. Yu, X. Song, and D. Zhou. Large language models
cannot self-correct reasoning yet. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.01798 , 2023.
N. Jain, K. Han, A. Gu, W.-D. Li, F. Yan, T. Zhang, S. Wang, A. Solar-Lezama, K. Sen, and I. Stoica.
Livecodebench: Holistic and contamination free evaluation of large language models for code. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2403.07974 , 2024.
R. Kamoi, Y. Zhang, N. Zhang, J. Han, and R. Zhang. When can llms actually correct their own mistakes?
a critical survey of self-correction of llms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.01297 , 2024.
G. Kim, P. Baldi, and S. McAleer. Language models can solve computer tasks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.17491 , 2023.
H. Lightman, V. Kosaraju, Y. Burda, H. Edwards, B. Baker, T. Lee, J. Leike, J. Schulman, I. Sutskever, and
K. Cobbe. Let’s verify step by step. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.20050 , 2023.
X. Liu, H. Yu, H. Zhang, Y. Xu, X. Lei, H. Lai, Y. Gu, H. Ding, K. Men, K. Yang, et al. Agentbench:
Evaluating llms as agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.03688 , 2023.
A. Lozhkov, R. Li, L. B. Allal, F. Cassano, J. Lamy-Poirier, N. Tazi, A. Tang, D. Pykhtar, J. Liu, Y. Wei, et al.
Starcoder 2 and the stack v2: The next generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.19173 , 2024.
A. Madaan, N. Tandon, P. Gupta, S. Hallinan, L. Gao, S. Wiegreffe, U. Alon, N. Dziri, S. Prabhumoye,
Y. Yang, et al. Self-refine: Iterative refinement with self-feedback. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.17651 ,
2023.
A. Ni, M. Allamanis, A. Cohan, Y. Deng, K. Shi, C. Sutton, and P. Yin. Next: Teaching large language
models to reason about code execution. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.14662 , 2024.
T. X. Olausson, J. P. Inala, C. Wang, J. Gao, and A. Solar-Lezama. Is self-repair a silver bullet for code
generation? In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations , 2023.
15

