=== PAGE 1 ===
arXiv:2505.19410v1  [cs.CL]  26 May 2025Self-Reflective Planning with Knowledge Graphs:
Enhancing LLM Reasoning Reliability for Question Answering
Jiajun Zhu, Ye Liu, Meikai Bao, Kai Zhang, Yanghai Zhang, Qi Liu
State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Intelligence, University of Science and Technology of China
{jiajunzhu, baomeikai, apocalypseh}@mail.ustc.edu.cn ,
yeliu.liuyeah@gmail.com ,
{kkzhang08, qiliuql}@ustc.edu.cn
Abstract
Recently, large language models (LLMs) have
demonstrated remarkable capabilities in natu-
ral language processing tasks, yet they remain
prone to hallucinations when reasoning with
insufficient internal knowledge. While inte-
grating LLMs with knowledge graphs (KGs)
provides access to structured, verifiable infor-
mation, existing approaches often generate in-
complete or factually inconsistent reasoning
paths. To this end, we propose Self-Reflective
Planning (SRP), a framework that synergizes
LLMs with KGs through iterative, reference-
guided reasoning. Specifically, given a ques-
tion and topic entities, SRP first searches for
references to guide planning and reflection. In
the planning process, it checks initial relations
and generates a reasoning path. After retriev-
ing knowledge from KGs through a reasoning
path, it implements iterative reflection by judg-
ing the retrieval result and editing the reasoning
path until the answer is correctly retrieved. Ex-
tensive experiments on three public datasets
demonstrate that SRP surpasses various strong
baselines and further underscore its reliable rea-
soning ability.
1 Introduction
Recent breakthroughs in large language models
(LLMs) have significantly advanced natural lan-
guage processing (Brown et al., 2020; Ouyang
et al., 2022; Bubeck et al., 2023). Nonethe-
less, LLMs largely depend on knowledge gained
through pretraining, and consequently, they tend to
struggle with hallucination when solving questions
that extend beyond their scope of knowledge.
To tackle these problems, researchers attempt
to integrate LLMs with knowledge graphs (KGs),
capitalizing on the explicit structure and semantic
knowledge to reinforce factual grounding (Hogan
et al., 2021). Prior research has explored two cate-
gories of approaches: (1) fine-tuning methods that
equip models with the ability to utilize informa-
tion in KGs (Shi et al., 2021; Zhang et al., 2022);
Question:  Where was the author of "Profiles in Courage"  raised ?
Profiles in 
courage
book.book_edition.
author_editor
people.person.
place_of_birthJohn 
F. KennedyBrooklinepeople.place_
lived.location m.03pfbz7
people.person.
places_livedWashington,
 D.C.Profiles_in_C ourage --> book.book_edition. author_editor
--> people.person. places_lived  --> people.place_ lived.locationGenerate
Reasoning Path
Retrival in KGs
✅❌Figure 1: An illustration of the question answering over
knowledge graphs.
and (2) guiding LLMs with prompts to make plans
and decisions in order to search for the knowledge
in KGs for answering questions (Li et al., 2023b;
Cheng et al., 2024).
Despite their effectiveness, existing approaches
still face notable challenges. On the one hand, fine-
tuning-based models require high-quality, large-
scale data for fine-tuning. Such requirements not
only limit their adaptability to new domains but
also demand substantial computational resources.
On the other hand, prompt-based approaches pri-
marily focus on planning effective retrieval, while
falling short in reflecting the retrieved informa-
tion. For example, in Figure 1, given the ques-
tion “ Where was the author of ‘Profiles in Courage’
raised ”, the model generates a reasoning path to
search for relevant knowledge in the KG. The re-
sult obtained from the reasoning path is “ Wash-
ington, D.C. ”, which is incorrect as the relation
“people.place_lived.location ” in the reasoning path
points to where the person lived, but the question
asks about where the person “was raised”. While
the model retrieves a relevant result, it lacks re-
flection on whether th

=== PAGE 2 ===
it overlooks the correct relation “ people.person
.place_of_birth ” and correct entity “ Brookline ”.
To address these shortcomings, we propose Self-
Reflective Planning (SRP), a KG-enhanced LLM
framework with reliable planning and reflection
ability. Specifically, SRP first designs a Reference
Searching module, which searches for relevant ref-
erences as evidence. Subsequently, a Path Planning
module is designed to check initial relations linked
to topic entities and generate the reasoning path.
After that, we develop a Knowledge Retrieval mod-
ule to instantiate the reasoning path with the KG.
More importantly, to achieve reliable reflection, a
Reflection and Reasoning module is employed to
iteratively judge retrieval results and edit the rea-
soning path until the answer is retrieved.
In summary, the main contributions of our work
could be summarized as follows.
•We explore methods for reliable planning and re-
flection with LLMs to generate accurate reason-
ing path, offering a new perspective for building
more reliable question answering algorithms.
•We propose a Self-Reflective Planning (SRP)
framework, which can generate the effective rea-
soning path and refine reasoning errors with re-
liable reflection.
•Extensive evaluations on WebQSP, CWQ, and
GrailQA datasets demonstrate SRP’s superior
performance compared to competitive base-
lines, underscoring the reliability and ac-
curacy of SRP. The code is available on
https://anonymous.4open.science/r/SRP-E06C.
2 Related Work
LLM Reasoning. To promote reasoning abil-
ity of LLMs, numerous researchers have directed
LLMs to incorporate their thought processes into
their outputs rather than merely delivering direct
answers (Wei et al., 2022; Hao et al., 2024; Kojima
et al., 2022). Initially, Chain of Thought (CoT)
(Wei et al., 2022) framework was developed to
present several examples of intermediate reasoning
steps in natural language as prompts. Subsequently,
various adaptations of CoT reasoning, such as Self-
Consistency (Wang et al., 2022), Tree-of-Thought
(Yao et al., 2023), Graph-of-Thought (Besta et al.,
2024), were introduced to motivate the reasoning
ability of LLMs. To facilitate LLMs in achieving
a cognitive process that parallels human thinking,
many studies (Madaan et al., 2023; Wang et al.,2024; Guan et al., 2024; Shinn et al., 2023) have
devised self-correction mechanisms using feedback
to amend faulty reasoning and ensure precision.
Our work is also inspired by self-correction and
proposes a self-reflection mechanism to better plan
and correct the reasoning path for searching effec-
tive knowledge in the KG.
KG-enhanced LLM. LLMs are pre-trained on
extensive datasets, but they still encounter issues
such as outdated information, hallucinations, and
unclear decision-making processes (Zhang et al.,
2024a, 2023, 2024b). A promising solution to these
problems is utilizing KGs to provide explicit and
modifiable knowledge to LLMs. Earlier research
incorporated KGs during the pre-training (Wang
et al., 2021) or fine-tuning (Luo et al., 2023) phases,
but these methods demand substantial computa-
tional resources and perform poorly when dealing
with problem that were not encountered during
the training or fine-tuning period. Consequently,
some approaches (Baek et al., 2023; Yang et al.,
2024; Cheng et al., 2024) first extracted informa-
tion from KGs and then directly supplied explicit
knowledge to LLMs. These methods eliminate
the requirement for pre-training or fine-tuning the
model and achieve satisfactory performance. How-
ever, this method still falls short in accurately ex-
tracting question-relevant knowledge from the KG,
which reduces the reliability of model. To solve
this problem, our work can improve reliability of
reasoning path through reference searching, check-
ing the first relation and self-reflection, which is
effective for retrieve relevant knowledge in KGs.
3 Problem Definition
Combining KGs with LLMs to answer questions
belongs to knowledge graph qu

=== PAGE 3 ===
Question:
What movies has Carmen Electra  been in?
(2.b) Path Generation(2.a) Relation Check
(4.c) AnsweringTopic Entity eq Q
[(actor .film, 0.4), 
(appearing_ in_film.films , 0.3),...]Initial Relations R0:
Reasoning Path  p1:Initial Relations R0Pruned Sequence S'
2 Q(4.a) Sequence Judge
Pruned Sequence Reference
Sequence Judge MessagePrune&Judge(2) Path Planning
First, based on the triplets (carmen
electra , actor .film, m.0cg8r04 ), (m.
0cg8r04 , performance. film, Naked
Movie) , ..., Carmen Electra has been in
multiple movies such as Naked Movie , 
So, the answer is Naked Movie .Reference
Topic Entity eq Q
   carmen electra -> actor .film -> performance.actor(3) Knowledge Retrieval
Reasoning Path
 Retrive r elations and
entities in KG(4.b) Path Edit
Reasoning Path p1
Q
carmen electra -> actor .film -> performance.filmReasoning Path p2: Pruned Sequence S'
1: [(..., actor .film, ...) ]Candidate Relations
Judge Message Reference
Triplet Sequence S1:
[(carmen electra, actor .film, m.0cg8r04),
(m.0cg8r04, performance.actor , carmen electra) ]
Triplet Sequence S2:
[(carmen electra , actor .film, m.0cg8r04 ),
(m.0cg8r04 , performance.film , Naked Movie) ](4) Reflection and ReasoningReference
BaseQuestion
PLM Top-k ReferenceTop-k ReferenceTop-k ReferenceTop-k ReferenceKNN
Search(1) Refer ence Sear ching
Retrive for
Reasoning Path p1Retrive for
Reasoning Path p2No AnswerHave Answer1-hop Relations Ra:
[actor .film, appeari ng_in_film.films, 
person.pr ofession ...]Figure 2: The framework of our SRP method. It consists of four main parts: (1) Reference Searching, (2) Path
Planning, (3) Knowledge Retrieval and (4) Reflection and Reasoning.
relations, e.g., p=e0→ˆr0→ˆr1→ ··· → ˆrl,
where each ˆriis a predicted relation generated by
LLM and lis the length of reasoning path.
Triplet Sequence. Triplet Sequence is a se-
quence of triplets retrieved from KGs. Given
reasoning path p, the triplet sequence is S=
{(ed, rd, ed+1)}D
d=0, where ed, ed+1∈ E and
rd∈ R. Noted that each rdis corresponding to a
predicted relation ˆrdinp.
4 Methodology
4.1 Overview
As shown in Figure 2, our SRP includes four mod-
ules: 1) Reference Searching module that searches
for reference, 2) Path Planning module that gener-
ates reasoning path, 3) Knowledge Retrieval mod-
ule that retrieves triplet sequence and 4) Reflection
and Reasoning module that performs judgement,
editing and answering.
Given a question, module 1) first searches for
references to guide module 2) and 4). Then, mod-
ule 2) generates initial reasoning path. Module 3)
bridges Module 2) and Module 4), achieving iter-
ative retrieval and refinement of reasoning paths.
The prompts of SRP are illustrated in Appendix C.
4.2 Reference Searching
To guide the reasoning process, module retrieves
relevant cases from reference base, which containsmassive referable cases about solving question with
KGs. A case includes a question, reasoning paths
that can be utilized to retrieve answers in KGs and
the correct answers of the question, which is de-
noted as reference. We extract references from
training set. To construct the reference base, each
question in training set is encoded into dense vec-
tors with pretrained language model and then clus-
tered (e.g., via K-Means). We randomly select the
same number of references from each cluster and
store them in the reference base.
During process of planning and self-reflection,
the model encodes the input question and com-
pares it against the embeddings of questions from
reference base using similarity-based search (e.g.,
K-Nearest Neighbors) to retrieve the Top-k most
similar corresponding references. These references
are integrated into downstream modules to enrich
the reasoning process with relevant historical con-
texts, as illustrated in Figure 2, thereby motivating
reasoning ability of LLM to enhance accuracy and
reliability of planning and self-reflection.
4.3 Path Planning
The Path Planning module is designed to generate
reliable initial reasoning path, whi

=== PAGE 4 ===
eq. This is because the LLM lacks context knowl-
edge of eqin KGs. Checking the 1-hop relations
connected to eqbefore generating the reasoning
pathpcan help LLMs predict reliable pand align p
with the actual structure of the KG, thereby enhanc-
ing the reliability of reasoning path. It identifies the
most relevant 1-hop relations connecting eqto other
entities within the KG. The 1-hop relations of eq
are denoted as Ra={ra
0, ra
1, ra
2. . .}. Guided by
the information from the references obtained in ref-
erence searching, the LLM assesses each relation
inRabased on its relevance to the given question
q. The LLM scores the Ra, and the top-K relations
with the highest scores are selected as the initial
relations R0={r0
0, r0
1, . . . , r0
k}to participate in
the path generation.
For demonstration, consider the example in Fig-
ure 2, the LLM checks 1-hop relations of eq.
The LLM scores 1-hop relations of carmen elec-
tra, such as actor.film ,appearing_in_film.film ,per-
son.profession and so on. The relevance scores
assigned by the LLM are used to select relations in-
cluding actor.film andappearing_in_film.film as the
top-K candidate relations, with indicative scores of
0.4 and 0.3, respectively. These selected R0serve
as candidates for the first relation starting from eq
in reasoning path, thereby reducing uncertainty in
the subsequent path generation.
Path Generation. The path generation process
generates the complete reasoning path pstarting
from the topic entity eqwith LLM, leveraging the
initial relations R0obtained through relation check.
Continuing the example of Figure 2, the LLM pre-
dictspstarting from the topic entity carmen elec-
tra. Taking inputs that include the question q,R0
(e.g., actor.film ), and eq, the LLM generates the
reasoning path “ carmen electra →actor.film →
performance.actor ”, denoted as the reasoning path
p1. This predicted reasoning path serves for further
retrieval in KGs and might be refined one or more
times to improve reliability of the reasoning path.
4.4 Knowledge Retrieval
The Knowledge Retrieval module aims to instan-
tiate the reasoning path p=e0→ˆr0→ˆr1→
··· → ˆrlby searching the corresponding triplet
sequence S={(ed, rd, ed+1)}D
d=0, where Dis
the length of s, and D≤l. Each rdinShas a
corresponding predicted relations ˆrdinp.
Following method in Readi (Cheng et al., 2024),
we conduct retrieval by comparing semantic sim-ilarity. The retrieval is starting from e0, which
is also the topic entity eqof the question. To re-
trieve relation corresponding to ˆr0, we first utilize
BM25 and Contriever (Izacard et al., 2022) to ob-
tain relations semantically similar to ˆr0, denoted as
Rs
0={rs
0,0, rs
0,1, . . .}. Then, we examine the
1-hop relations connected to e0. If there is one or
more relations among e0that exists in Rs
0, then the
corresponding relation r0and entity e1in KGs will
be retrieved. The retrieval process will be iterated
until each predicted relation in pfinds correspond-
ing relation in KGs or a predicted relation in pfails
to find corresponding relation in KGs.
For the instance in Figure 2, the reasoning path
p1from Path Planning is successfully retrieved,
whose corresponding triplet sequence is [(car-
men electra, actor.film, m.0cg8r04), (m.0cg8r04,
performance.actor, carmen electra)] , denoted as
triplet sequence S1. The edited path generated
from path edit (reasoning path p2) is also re-
trieved as [(carmen electra, actor.film, m.0cg8r04),
(m.0cg8r04, performance.film, Naked Movie)] , de-
noted as triplet sequence S2.
4.5 Reflection and Reasoning
The Reflection and Reasoning module enables
LLM to evaluate retrieved triplets, then choose
to refine the reasoning path for next retrieval in
KGs or answer question with retrieved information
based on evaluation result. It consists of three parts:
sequence judge, path edit and answering.
Sequence Judge. The sequence judge aims to de-
termine whether the current reasoning path pneeds
to be edited, and retain the subsequence related

=== PAGE 5 ===
be corrected. These relations may not be retrievable
in the KG or may not be helpful for answering the
question. The evaluation result of S′and thinking
process of LLM are concatenated as judge message
for path edit process.
For the example in Figure 2, the triplet sequence
S1is judged to have no answer, and the LLM con-
siders (m.0cg8r04, performance.actor, carmen elec-
tra)is meaningless for answering question, so LLM
generated pruned sequence S′
1[(carmen electra,
actor.film, m.0cg8r04)] and corresponding judge
message. For triplet sequence S2, LLM judges that
answer is in the sequence, so the self-reflection is
stopped and the model will answer question with
pruned sequence S′
2which is same as triplet se-
quence S2.
Path Edit. Path edit refines the reasoning path p
to better align with the question qand reasoning
goals, triggered when the triplet sequence Slacks
sufficient information. Path edit requires the 1-hop
relations linked to the tail entity of the pruned se-
quence S′as the candidate relations for the edit
process, which is obtained from retrieval module.
As shown in Figure 2, with information from ref-
erences, judge message and S′, LLM edits the rea-
soning path p1with candidate relations. It modifies
the relation performance.actor toperformance.film
and generates edited reasoning path “ carmen elec-
tra→actor.film →performance.film ”, denoted as
reasoning path p2.
Answering. If the judgement result is “have an-
swer”, LLM will reason for answering question
based on pruned sequence S′from sequence judge
part. Using Chain-of-Thought (CoT) reasoning
prompts, the LLM generates the final answer of
question based on S′. This step involves analyz-
ing the triplets in S′to deduce the answer. For
the instance in Figure 2, based on triplets (car-
men electra, actor.film, m.0cg8r04) ,(m.0cg8r04,
performance.film, Naked Movie) , LLM can give
conclusion that “ the answer is Naked Movie ”.
5 Experiments
5.1 Experiment Setup
Datasets and Evaluation Metrics. To evaluate
the reasoning ability of SRP, we conduct experi-
ments on three multi-hop KGQA datasets called
WebQuestionsSP (WebQSP) (Yih et al., 2016),
ComplexWebQuestions (CWQ) (Talmor and Be-
rant, 2018) and GrailQA (Gu et al., 2021). MoreDatasets #Train #Test #Max hop
WebQSP 3,098 1,628 2
CWQ 27,639 3,531 4
GrailQA 44,337 1,000 4
Table 1: Statistics of three datasets.
statistics are illustrated in Table 1. Besides, all
of the three datasets utilize Freebase (Bollacker
et al., 2008) as the background KG. To ensure
computational efficiency in processing the large-
scale GrailQA dataset, our experimental framework
adopts the same test samples established in ToG
(Sun et al., 2023). You can refer to Appendix A for
more details.
Consistent with established methodologies in
previous work (Cheng et al., 2024; Li et al., 2023a;
Jiang et al., 2023), we employ exact match accu-
racy (Hits@1) as the primary evaluation metric for
model performance assessment.
Implementation Details. In Reference Search-
ing and Knowledge Retrieval module, we adopt the
all-MiniLM-L6-v2 based on sentence-transformers
(Reimers and Gurevych, 2019) as the representa-
tion model. We extract 100 questions and corre-
sponding references from each dataset to construct
reference base. The number of retrieved reference
for each test question is set to be k = 4.
We adopt gpt-3.5-turbo (OpenAI, 2022) and gpt-
4.1-mini (OpenAI, 2025) as the LLMs to conduct
experiments, denoted as SRP-GPT3.5 and SRP-
GPT4.1-mini. Temperature is 0.3 for all modules.
Following previous research (Cheng et al., 2024),
we utilize a Pyserini as a hybrid searcher with
BM25 and Contriver (Izacard et al., 2022). For
each relation in reasoning path, we retrieve top-5
similar relations on Freebase. We deploy Virtuoso
server to search for knowledge from Freebase.
Benchmark Methods. In order to verify the per-
formance of our SRP model, we compare SRP with
the state-of-the-art KGQA methods: 1) Fine-Tuned
model methods, including TransferNet (S

=== PAGE 6 ===
Method WebQSP CWQGrailQA
overall I.I.D. Compositional Zero-shot
Fine-tuned Method
TransferNet∗71.4 48.6 - - - -
TIARA∗75.2 - 73.0 87.8 69.2 68.0
SR+NSM+E2E∗69.5 49.3 - - - -
Flexkbqa∗60.6 - 62.8 71.3 59.1 60.6
LLM-only Method
GPT3.5 63.8 45.7 25.8 20.0 18.7 30.8
GPT-4.1-mini 64.2 52.4 36.5 34.2 26.3 41.1
Prompting LLM Methods
KB-BINDER∗74.4 - 50.6 - - -
StructGPT∗72.6 54.3 - - - -
ToG-GPT3.5∗76.2 57.1 68.7 70.1 56.1 72.7
Readi-GPT3.5 74.5 56.7 67.0 67.9 53.5 71.4
Readi-GPT4.1-mini 80.9 60.2 71.7 67.5 60.1 77.6
SRP-GPT3.5 (ours) 78.6 58.7 71.2 68.3 58.6 76.9
SRP-GPT4.1-mini (ours) 83.6 69.0 78.8 75.8 62.6 85.8
Table 2: Performance comparison with different baselines on three KGQA dataets. Bold font represents the optimal
result, while the underline font represents the sub-optimal result. The results labeled with * are cited from their
original publications.
2024). It is worth noting that, we utilize GPT3.5
and GPT4.1-mini to motivate Readi in experiment,
denoted as Readi-GPT3.5 and Readi-GPT4.1-mini.
Results of ToG (ToG-GPT3.5) are cited from (Chen
et al., 2024). More details can be seen from Ap-
pendix B.
5.2 Experiment Result
As shown in Table 2, SRP consistently demon-
strates state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance on
both the WebQSP and CWQ benchmarks, while
achieving the second-highest overall performance
on GrailQA, demonstrating its capacity to effec-
tively leverage an external KG for robust retrieval
and multi-hop reasoning. First, by integrating a
systematic retrieval module with self-reflection rea-
soning prompts, SRP not only detects relevant facts
more accurately but also navigates complex rea-
soning pathways in a manner that outperforms
prompting-based LLM baselines such as Readi.
This superiority becomes evident on both GPT-3.5
and GPT-4.1-mini backbones, highlighting SRP’s
adaptability to different large language model ar-
chitectures and underscoring the versatility of our
retrieval-centric design. Second, although SRPMethod WebQSP CWQ GraliQA
SRP 78.5 58.7 71.2
w/o relation check 76.9 56.7 62.9
w/o self-reflection 76.9 55.5 68.7
w/o reference 75.7 57.6 69.8
w/ random reference 77.0 58.2 70.9
Table 3: Ablation study
does not incorporate any pre-training or fine-tuning
steps, it still surpasses notable fine-tuned models,
including TIARA, SR+NSM+E2E, and Flexkbqa;
this observation underscores the power of a well-
designed prompting approach to capture nuanced
relationships within a knowledge graph, thus com-
pensating for the absence of additional parame-
ter updates. Third, when compared against LLM-
only methods—where no external knowledge is
used—SRP reveals significant gains in accuracy,
indicating that the KG provides crucial informa-
tion and helps avoid the hallucinations or logical
gaps that can arise when relying purely on learned
language representations.

=== PAGE 7 ===
Readi-GPT3.5Readi-GPT4.1-miniSRP-GPT3.5SRP-GPT4.1-mini
(a) WebQSP(b) CWQ
(c) GraliQAFigure 3: Reliable answering rate of Readi and SRP on theree datasets.
Methods WebQSP CWQ GraliQA
Readi-GPT3.5 55.7 44.2 68.3
Readi-GPT4.1-mini 64.3 41.6 74.2
SRP-GPT3.5 69.9 60.5 80.3
SRP-GPT4.1-mini 85.3 70.3 85.0
Table 4: Searching success rate of Readi and SRP on
theree datasets.
5.3 Ablation Study
Table 3 presents the ablation study findings for
our proposed SRP model across three benchmark
datasets. We conduct ablation studies from the
following three perspectives.
First, omitting the relation check part in Path
Planning ( - relation check ) significantly under-
mines performance of SRP, which underscores the
necessity of validating relation correctness to gen-
erate reliable reasoning paths.
Second, removing the sequence judge and path
edit part in Reflection and Reasoning module ( -
self-reflection ) causes a notable drop on CWQ, re-
vealing effects of reflection mechanisms for judg-
ing retrieved results and refining reasoning path.
Third, eliminating the Reference Searching mod-
ule (- reference ) yields a pronounced performance
drop, highlighting the importance of reference; for
instance, scores on WebQSP decline from 78.5%
to 75.7%, demonstrating the benefits of leveraging
external information for guidance. Furthermore,
replacing the searched references with random-
sampled references ( random reference ) also re-
duces the result from 71.2% to 70.9% on GrailQA
and from 78.5% to 77.0% on WebQSP, implying
that carefully searched references are superior to
arbitrary references.5.4 Reliability Study
To further substantiate the reliability of our pro-
posed SRP framework, we evaluate both the search-
ing success rate and the reliable answering rate us-
ing the WebQSP, CWQ, and GrailQA datasets. The
searching success rate denotes how efficiently each
approach retrieves answer of question from the KG,
while the reliable answering rate reflects defined
as the proportion of correct answers supported by
factual triples from the KG, thereby capturing the
overall reliability of each system.
Table 4 presents the searching success rate for of
Readi-GPT3.5, Readi-GPT4.1-mini, SRP-GPT3.5,
and SRP-GPT4.1-mini. The data illustrate that
SRP’s performance of retrieval valuable knowl-
edge from KGs substantially exceeds Readi on
three datasets. Even when Readi uses GPT4.1-mini,
Readi’s searching success rate is still lower than
SRP-GPT3.5 on WebQSP, CWQ, and GrailQA,
which demonstrates that the reasoning paths gener-
ated by SRP through reliable planning and reflec-
tion are more effective in retrieving the knowledge
needed to answer the question.
As illustrated in Figure 3, we analyze each
model’s reliable answering rate. Overall, SRP con-
sistently outperforms Readi across three datasets.
For instance, on WebQSP, SRP-GPT4.1-mini
achieves a reliable answering rate of 92.2%, sig-
nificantly higher than the 70.5% reached by Readi-
GPT4.1-mini. The gap remains evident on CWQ
and persists in GrailQA, where SRP maintains over
95% reliability. These findings indicate that SRP’s
correct answers are more frequently grounded in
triples from KGs, reflecting strong factual support
and high explanatory credibility.

=== PAGE 8 ===
Dominican Republic
location.location.
containedby
Greater AntillesUTC-05:00North Americabase.locations.
countries.continent
Bahamastime.time_zone.locations
_in_this_time_zone
time.time_zone.locations
_in_this_time_zoneCuba
time.time_zone.locations
_in_this_time_zoneQuestion 2: Which globe region with the UTC-05:00 time zone does the Dominican Republic call home?
Readi-
GPT4.1-
mini
SRP-
GPT4.1-
mini
(ours)Answer : There is no direct triplet linking the Dominican Republic to the UTC-05:00 time
zone. Based on my own knowledge, ...So, the answer is North America .Initial Reasoning Path:  Dominican Republic  -> base.locations.countries.continent , UTC-
05:00  -> time.time_zone.locations_in_this_time_zone
Initial Reasoning Path:  Dominican Republic  -> base.locations.countries.continent , UTC-
05:00  -> time.time_zone.locations_in_this_time_zone
Edited Reasoning Path:  Dominican Republic  -> location.location. containedby , UTC-05:00
-> time.time_zone.locations_in_this_time_zone (Edit Success)
Answer:  First, based on (Dominican Republic, location.location.containedby , Greater
Antilles)  and (Greater Antilles, location.location.time_zones, UTC\u221205:00) , the
Dominican Republic is located in the Greater Antilles  region , which uses the UTC-05:00
time zone.Edited Reasoning Path:  Dominican Republic  -> base.locations.countries.continent , UTC-
05:00  -> time.time_zone.locations_in_this_time_zone (Edit Fail)Question 1: what state does Romney live in?
Readi-
GPT3.5
SRP-
GPT3.5
(ours)Answer : First, based o n (Mitt Romney , people.person.place_of_birth, Detr oit), Mitt Romney
was born in Detroit. Second, based on (Detr oit, location.location.contained-
by, Michigan) , Detroit is located in the state of Michigan. So, the answer is Michigan .Initial Reasoning Path: 
           Romney  -> people.person.place_of_birth  ->location.location.containedby
Initial Reasoning Path:  
            Romney  -> people.person.places_lived  ->location.location.location
Edited Reasoning Path:  
            Romney  -> people.person.places_lived  ->people.place_lived.location (Edit Success)
Answer: Based on the knowledge triplets provided, Mitt Romney lived in Massachusetts. So,
the answer is Massachusetts . Edited Reasoning Path: None
Romney
m.03pvr9m MassachusettsDetroit Michigan
people.person.
places_livedpeople.person.
place_of_birth
people.place
_lived. location ✅❌location.location.
containedby
✅❌Figure 4: Case study of Readi and SRP. Question 1 comes from WebQSP, and question 2 comes from CWQ.
5.5 Case Study
Figure 4 illustrates two typical example, where
Question 1 comes from WebQSP and Question
2 comes from CWQ. To further highlight the re-
liability of the SRP in generating and correcting
reasoning paths, we conducted a case study on the
WebQSP and CWQ datasets. As shown in Figure 4,
we present the initial reasoning paths, edited rea-
soning paths, and the answers inferred based on
retrieval results of SRP and Readi. The retrieval
results are presented in the form of node graphs.
GPT3.5 and GPT4.1-mini are utilized in question 1
and in question 2 respectively.
In Question 1, with reliable planning, SRP se-
lects the correct initial relation ( people.person
.place_of_birth ), thereby establishing a solid foun-
dation for generating correct reasoning path. This
deliberate approach ultimately guides SRP to iden-
tify “Michigan” as the most plausible answer. Con-
versely, Readi initiates its reasoning path with an in-
appropriate relation ( people.person.places_lived ),
which leads the reasoning path of Readi to deviate
from the correct answer.
In Question 2, although SRP’s initial reason-
ing path is not flawless, by reflection on re-
trieved information, SRP swiftly edits the path with
correct relation “ location.location.containedby ”.
In contrast, Readi fails to realise that relation
“base.locations.countries.continent ” was inconsis-tent with the problem due to lack of reflection on
triplets sequence. The capacity for iterative re-
finement il

=== PAGE 9 ===
Limitations
While SRP shows promising results demonstrates
that SRP can retrieve valuable knowledge with reli-
able reasoning path, two limitations still exists in
SRP which should be resolved in future work.
First, the iterative reflection process increases
computational costs compared to single-pass meth-
ods. This is because the reflection mechanism it-
eratively utilizes LLM to judge and edit for refin-
ing reasoning path, increasing the number of LLM
calls. We hope to explore reliable and more effi-
cient mechanisms to reduce computational costs in
future research.
Second, performance of Reference Searching
partially depends on the quality of the reference,
which could be impacted by domain shifts. Be-
cause we use data from training set, this limita-
tion doesn’t influence the performance of SRP. Fu-
ture work will explore dynamic reference adapta-
tion and lightweight verification mechanisms to
enhance the robustness of Reference Searching.
References
Jinheon Baek, Alham Fikri Aji, and Amir Saffari. 2023.
Knowledge-augmented language model prompting
for zero-shot knowledge graph question answering.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.04136 .
Jonathan Berant, Andrew Chou, Roy Frostig, and Percy
Liang. 2013. Semantic parsing on freebase from
question-answer pairs. In Proceedings of the 2013
conference on empirical methods in natural language
processing , pages 1533–1544.
Maciej Besta, Nils Blach, Ales Kubicek, Robert Gersten-
berger, Michal Podstawski, Lukas Gianinazzi, Joanna
Gajda, Tomasz Lehmann, Hubert Niewiadomski, Pi-
otr Nyczyk, et al. 2024. Graph of thoughts: Solving
elaborate problems with large language models. In
Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial
Intelligence , pages 17682–17690.
Kurt Bollacker, Colin Evans, Praveen Paritosh, Tim
Sturge, and Jamie Taylor. 2008. Freebase: a collabo-
ratively created graph database for structuring human
knowledge. In Proceedings of the 2008 ACM SIG-
MOD international conference on Management of
data, pages 1247–1250.
Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie
Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind
Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda
Askell, et al. 2020. Language models are few-shot
learners. Advances in neural information processing
systems , 33:1877–1901.
Sébastien Bubeck, Varun Chadrasekaran, Ronen Eldan,
Johannes Gehrke, Eric Horvitz, Ece Kamar, PeterLee, Yin Tat Lee, Yuanzhi Li, Scott Lundberg, et al.
2023. Sparks of artificial general intelligence: Early
experiments with gpt-4.
Liyi Chen, Panrong Tong, Zhongming Jin, Ying
Sun, Jieping Ye, and Hui Xiong. 2024. Plan-on-
graph: Self-correcting adaptive planning of large lan-
guage model on knowledge graphs. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.23875 .
Sitao Cheng, Ziyuan Zhuang, Yong Xu, Fangkai Yang,
Chaoyun Zhang, Xiaoting Qin, Xiang Huang, Ling
Chen, Qingwei Lin, Dongmei Zhang, et al. 2024.
Call me when necessary: Llms can efficiently and
faithfully reason over structured environments. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2403.08593 .
Yu Gu, Sue Kase, Michelle Vanni, Brian Sadler, Percy
Liang, Xifeng Yan, and Yu Su. 2021. Beyond iid:
three levels of generalization for question answering
on knowledge bases. In Proceedings of the Web
Conference 2021 , pages 3477–3488.
Jian Guan, Wei Wu, Peng Xu, Hongning Wang, Min-
lie Huang, et al. 2024. Amor: A recipe for building
adaptable modular knowledge agents through process
feedback. Advances in Neural Information Process-
ing Systems , 37:126118–126148.
Shibo Hao, Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, DiJia Su, Xian Li,
Zhiting Hu, Jason Weston, and Yuandong Tian. 2024.
Training large language models to reason in a contin-
uous latent space. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.06769 .
Aidan Hogan, Eva Blomqvist, Michael Cochez, Clau-
dia d’Amato, Gerard De Melo, Claudio Gutierrez,
Sabrina Kirrane, José Emilio Labra Gayo, Roberto
Navigli, Sebastian Neumaier, et al. 2021. Knowledge
graphs. ACM Computing Surveys (Csur) , 54(4):1–
37.
Gautier Izacard, Mathilde Caron, Lucas Hosseini, Sebas-
tian Riedel, Piot

=== PAGE 10 ===
Tianle Li, Xueguang Ma, Alex Zhuang, Yu Gu, Yu Su,
and Wenhu Chen. 2023b. Few-shot in-context learn-
ing on knowledge base question answering. In Pro-
ceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Associa-
tion for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long
Papers) , pages 6966–6980, Toronto, Canada. Associ-
ation for Computational Linguistics.
Zhenyu Li, Sunqi Fan, Yu Gu, Xiuxing Li, Zhichao
Duan, Bowen Dong, Ning Liu, and Jianyong Wang.
2024. Flexkbqa: A flexible llm-powered framework
for few-shot knowledge base question answering. In
Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial in-
telligence , volume 38, pages 18608–18616.
Linhao Luo, Yuan-Fang Li, Gholamreza Haffari, and
Shirui Pan. 2023. Reasoning on graphs: Faithful and
interpretable large language model reasoning. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2310.01061 .
Aman Madaan, Niket Tandon, Prakhar Gupta, Skyler
Hallinan, Luyu Gao, Sarah Wiegreffe, Uri Alon,
Nouha Dziri, Shrimai Prabhumoye, Yiming Yang,
et al. 2023. Self-refine: Iterative refinement with
self-feedback. Advances in Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems , 36:46534–46594.
OpenAI. 2022. Introducing chatgpt.
OpenAI. 2025. Introducing gpt-4.1 in the api.
Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida,
Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong Zhang,
Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, et al.
2022. Training language models to follow instruc-
tions with human feedback. Advances in neural in-
formation processing systems , 35:27730–27744.
Nils Reimers and Iryna Gurevych. 2019. Sentence-
BERT: Sentence embeddings using Siamese BERT-
networks. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natu-
ral Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP) , pages
3982–3992, Hong Kong, China. Association for Com-
putational Linguistics.
Jiaxin Shi, Shulin Cao, Lei Hou, Juanzi Li, and Han-
wang Zhang. 2021. TransferNet: An effective and
transparent framework for multi-hop question an-
swering over relation graph. In Proceedings of the
2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing , pages 4149–4158, Online and
Punta Cana, Dominican Republic. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Ashwin Gopinath,
Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao. 2023. Re-
flexion: Language agents with verbal reinforcement
learning. Advances in Neural Information Process-
ing Systems , 36:8634–8652.
Yiheng Shu, Zhiwei Yu, Yuhan Li, Börje Karlsson,
Tingting Ma, Yuzhong Qu, and Chin-Yew Lin. 2022.
TIARA: Multi-grained retrieval for robust questionanswering over large knowledge base. In Proceed-
ings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing , pages 8108–8121,
Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Jiashuo Sun, Chengjin Xu, Lumingyuan Tang, Saizhuo
Wang, Chen Lin, Yeyun Gong, Lionel M Ni, Heung-
Yeung Shum, and Jian Guo. 2023. Think-on-
graph: Deep and responsible reasoning of large lan-
guage model on knowledge graph. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.07697 .
Alon Talmor and Jonathan Berant. 2018. The web as
a knowledge-base for answering complex questions.
InProceedings of the 2018 Conference of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics: Human Language Technologies,
Volume 1 (Long Papers) , pages 641–651, New Or-
leans, Louisiana. Association for Computational Lin-
guistics.
Xiaozhi Wang, Tianyu Gao, Zhaocheng Zhu, Zhengyan
Zhang, Zhiyuan Liu, Juanzi Li, and Jian Tang. 2021.
Kepler: A unified model for knowledge embedding
and pre-trained language representation. Transac-
tions of the Association for Computational Linguis-
tics, 9:176–194.
Xuezhi Wang, Jason Wei, Dale Schuurmans, Quoc Le,
Ed Chi, Sharan Narang, Aakanksha Chowdhery, and
Denny Zhou. 2022. Self-consistency improves chain
of thought reasoning in language models. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2203.11171 .
Yifei Wang, Yuyang Wu, Zeming Wei, Stefanie Jegelka,
and Yisen Wang. 2024. A the

=== PAGE 11 ===
Germany. Association for Computational Linguis-
tics.
Jing Zhang, Xiaokang Zhang, Jifan Yu, Jian Tang, Jie
Tang, Cuiping Li, and Hong Chen. 2022. Subgraph
retrieval enhanced model for multi-hop knowledge
base question answering. In Proceedings of the 60th
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , pages 5773–
5784, Dublin, Ireland. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Weichao Zhang, Ruqing Zhang, Jiafeng Guo, Maarten
de Rijke, Yixing Fan, and Xueqi Cheng. 2024a. Pre-
training data detection for large language models: A
divergence-based calibration method. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2409.14781 .
Yi-Fan Zhang, Weichen Yu, Qingsong Wen, Xue Wang,
Zhang Zhang, Liang Wang, Rong Jin, and Tieniu Tan.
2024b. Debiasing multimodal large language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.05262 .
Yue Zhang, Yafu Li, Leyang Cui, Deng Cai, Lemao Liu,
Tingchen Fu, Xinting Huang, Enbo Zhao, Yu Zhang,
Yulong Chen, et al. 2023. Siren’s song in the ai ocean:
a survey on hallucination in large language models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.01219 .
A Datasets
We adopt three widely adopted multi-hop knowl-
edge graph question answering (KGQA) datasets.
•WebQuestionsSP (WebQSP) (Yih et al., 2016)
is a popular KGQA dataset derived from the
WebQuestions dataset (Berant et al., 2013),
designed for complex question answering over
Freebase (Bollacker et al., 2008). It contains
questions annotated with SPARQL queries,
enabling research on semantic parsing and
knowledge base question answering.
•Complex WebQuestions(CWQ) (Talmor and
Berant, 2018) extends the original WebQSP
dataset by introducing compositional ques-
tions that require multi-hop reasoning. It con-
sists of natural language questions that are
more complex and involve multiple relations
or constraints.
•GrailQA (Gu et al., 2021) is a large-scale
KGQA dataset built on Freebase (Bollacker
et al., 2008). It evaluate models’ generaliza-
tion abilities across three levels: I.I.D., com-
positional, and zero-shot.B Baselines
We comepare SRP with baselines grouping into 3
categories: 1) Fine-tuned model method; 2) LLM
only methods; 3) Prompting LLM methods. The
details of each baseline are describe as follows.
Fine-tuned model methods:
•TransferNet (Shi et al., 2021) utilizes a
transparent framework to transfer knowledge
across domains by aligning feature distribu-
tions for improved domain adaptation.
•TIARA (Shu et al., 2022) is a framework that
leverages BERT for schema item retrieval and
T5 for plan generation, employing constrained
decoding to ensure grammatical correctness.
•SR+NSM+E2E (Zhang et al., 2022) trains an
encoder to retrieve relevant relations and con-
structs reasoning paths based on the retrieved
relations.
•Flexkbqa (Li et al., 2024) is a flexible KGQA
framework that uses LLMs to adapt to differ-
ent knowledge graphs and query languages
with minimal annotated data.
LLM only methods:
•GPT3.5 (OpenAI, 2022) is an advanced AI
language model developed by OpenAI, capa-
ble of understanding and generating human-
like text across a wide range of tasks.
•GPT4.1-mini (OpenAI, 2025) is a streamlined
version of the GPT-4.1 model, optimized for
efficient natural language processing with re-
duced computational demands while maintain-
ing core performance capabilities.
Prompting LLM methods:
•KB-BINDER (Li et al., 2023b) is designed
to address the heterogeneity of items across
different KGs, facilitating few-shot in-context
learning for KGQA tasks.
•StructGPT (Jiang et al., 2023) utilizes an in-
terface for KG data to enable finite knowl-
edge access and filtering, leveraging a LLM to
repeatedly infer answers or subsequent plan-
ning.

=== PAGE 12 ===
•ToG (Sun et al., 2023) is a training-free
framework that incorporates LLMs with KGs
through iterative beam search, enhancing deep
reasoning capabilities, ensuring knowledge
traceability and correctability, and enabling
flexible, cost-effective deployment across di-
verse models and datasets.
•Readi (Cheng et al., 2024) is a novel frame-
work that enables LLMs to efficiently and
faithfully reason over structured environments
by initially generating a reasoning path, in-
stantiating it on the environment, and invoking
targeted editing only when necessary.
Table 5 presents performance of ToG-GPT3.5,
ToG-GPT4, SRP-GPT3.5 and SRP-GPT4.1-mini
on three datasets, where ToG-GPT4 means ToG
motivated by GPT-4. Results of ToG-GPT3.5 and
ToG-GPT4 are cited from (Chen et al., 2024). Be-
cause of the lack of experiment data on ToG mo-
tivated by GPT4.1-mini and the difference of pa-
rameters size between GPT4 and GPT4.1-mini, we
doesn’t present results of ToG-GPT4 and compare
ToG-GPT4 with SRP-GPT4.1-mini in table 2. As
shown in table 5, SRP performs better than ToG
when motivated by GPT-3.5. Although the per-
formance of SRP-GPT4.1-mini is slightly inferior
to that of ToG-GPT4. in GrailQA, SRP-GPT4.1-
mini is better than ToG-GPT4 in WebQSP and
CWQ. More importantly, the performance gap on
GrailQA can be reasonably attributed to the fact
that GPT-4.1-mini has significantly fewer param-
eters than GPT-4, which may limit its capacity in
complex multi-hop reasoning tasks. Despite this,
SRP-GPT4.1-mini still demonstrates strong gener-
alization and competitive performance, indicating
the robustness of our SRP framework even under
lighter backbone models.
C Prompts
We provide prompts of SRP in this section.
Prompts of relation check, path generation, se-
quence judge, path edit and answering are in Table
6, Table 7, Table 8, Table 9 and Table 10. Noted
that the demonstration of prompts of relation check
is from (Sun et al., 2023), and prompts of answer-
ing is following (Cheng et al., 2024).
For number of few-shot demonstration, we uti-
lize 3 shots in WebQSP and 4 shots in CWQ and
GrailQA for path generation. In path edit, we uti-
lized 5 shots in WebQSP and CWQ and 4 shots inGrailQA. For relation check, sequence judge and
answering, we utilizes 1 shots, 2 shots and 5 shots
in each dataset respectively. When test Readi in
GrailQA, we utilized 6 shots prompts for reason-
ing path generation and 4 shots demonstration for
reasoning path edit.

=== PAGE 13 ===
Method WebQSP CWQGrailQA
overall I.I.D. Compositional Zero-shot
ToG-GPT3.5 76.2 57.1 68.7 70.1 56.1 72.7
SRP-GPT3.5 78.6 58.7 71.2 68.3 58.6 76.9
ToG-GPT4 82.6 67.6 81.4 79.4 67.3 86.5
SRP-GPT4.1-mini 83.6 69.7 78.8 75.8 62.6 85.8
Table 5: Performance of ToG-GPT3.5, ToG-GPT4, SRP-GPT3.5 and SRP-GPT4.1-mini on three datasets.
Instruction
Please retrieve 3 relations (separated by semicolon) that contribute to the question and rate their
contribution on a scale from 0 to 1 (the sum of the scores of 3 relations is 1). Note: (1) please refer
to the 4 examples of relation paths to give your score, if some example are similar to the question
and the first relation of its relation path appears in candidate relation, give this relation a good rate;
(2) please output relation and score in the format of (’relation’, score).
Reference
Here are 4 examples of questions and associated relation paths which connect to correct answer of
question:
Question: {reference question}
Relation Path: {reference reasoning path}
......
Demonstration Example
Question: Name the president of the country whose main spoken language was Brahui in 1980?
Topic Entity: Brahui Language
Candidate Relations: language.human_language.main_country; language.human_language.language
_family; language.human_language.iso_639_3_code; base.rosetta.languoid.parent; language.human
_language.writing_system; base.rosetta.languoid.languoid_class; language.human_language
.countries_spoken_in; kg.object_profile.prominent_type; base.rosetta.languoid.document; base
.ontologies.ontology_instance.equivalent_instances; base.rosetta.languoid.local_name; language
.human_language.region Answer:
1. (’language.human_language.main_country’, 0.4): This relation is highly relevant as it directly
relates to the country whose president is being asked for, and the main country where Brahui language
is spoken in 1980.
2. (’language.human_language.countries_spoken_in’, 0.3): This relation is also relevant as it
provides information on the countries where Brahui language is spoken, which could help narrow
down the search for the president.
3. (’base.rosetta.languoid.parent’, 0.2): This relation is less relevant but still provides some context
on the language family to which Brahui belongs, which could be useful in understanding the linguistic
and cultural background of the country in question.
Table 6: Prompts of relation check.

=== PAGE 14 ===
Instruction
You are tasked with generating relation paths to help searching for answers in Freebase based on
given question. I will provide you with:
1. A question.
2. One or more topic entity that is central to the question.
3. A set of valuable relations associated with the topic entity.
Your goal is to generate relation paths that start with the topic entity and follow a sequence of
relations to help answer the question.
Demonstration Example
Question: who played princess leia in star wars movies?
Topic Entity: princess leia
Valuable Relations: {“princess leia”: [’film.film_character.portrayed_in_films’, ’tv.tv_character
.appeared_in_tv_program’, ’film.film_character.movie’, ’movie.movie_character.movie’]}
Thought: Firstly, the path should cover the movies portrying princess leia. Secondly, the path should
cover the actors in that movie.
Path: {
“princess leia”:[
“princess leia -> film.film_character.portrayed_in_films -> film.performance.actor”,
“princess leia -> movie.movie_character.movie -> film.actor.actor”
]
}
Table 7: Prompts of path generation.

=== PAGE 15 ===
Instruction
Here are some triplet sequences [(h_0, r_0, t_0), ..., (h_n, r_n, t_n)] that may contain information
helpful for solving the problem. Please analyze the following triplet sequences and retain the
subsequences within each triplet sequence that are useful for answering the question, while removing
the subsequences that are not helpful. Please first output your Thinking Process, then output the
retained parts of each triplet sequence. If you believe the answer to the question appears at the end
of the triplet sequence (i.e., the answer is the tail entity t_n of the last triplet), directly return this
sequence. If you think that the entire triplet sequence, except for the head entity h_0 of the first
triplet, is unrelated to the question, return an empty list [].
Note: (1) The retained part of the triplet sequence should be a continuous subsequence, and the
removed part should also be a continuous subsequence; you cannot return non-continuous triples
from the original sequence. (2) If it is possible to retain, the retained part should include at least the
first triplet of the sequence. (3) The format of the output triplet sequence should be the same as the
input triplet sequence. (4) If you believe the answer to the question appears in the triplet sequences,
please give “<HA VE_ANSWER>” in the end of your Thinking Process. If you do not believe the
answer to the question appears in the triplet sequences, please give “<NO_ANSWER>” in the end of
your Thinking Process.
Reference
Here are 4 examples of some questions, associated relation and answer of question.
Question: {reference question}
Relation Path: {reference reasoning path}
Answer: {reference answer}
......
Demonstration Example
Question: where is aviano air force base located?
Triplet sequences:
1. [(“Aviano Air Base”, “location.location.containedby”, “Italy”)]
2. [(“Aviano Air Base”, “aviation.airport.serves”, “Aviano”)]
Thinking Process: First, based on the triplet (“Aviano Air Base”, “location.location.containedby”,
“Italy”), I can answer the question. So, I think these triplet sequences have enough information to
answer the question. <HA VE_ANSWER>
Retained sequences:
1. [(“Aviano Air Base”, “location.location.containedby”, “Italy”)]
2. []
Table 8: Prompts of sequence judge.

